(1 Chronicles 1:1) 
Adam, Seth, Enos,

(1 Chronicles 1:2) 
Cainan, Mahalalel, Jared,

(1 Chronicles 1:3) 
Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech,

(1 Chronicles 1:4) 
Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

(1 Chronicles 1:5) 
The sons of Japheth were Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras.

(1 Chronicles 1:6) 
And the sons of Gomer were Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah.

(1 Chronicles 1:7) 
And the sons of Javan were Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.

(1 Chronicles 1:8) 
The sons of Ham were Cush, Mizraim, Put, and Canaan.

(1 Chronicles 1:9) 
And the sons of Cush were Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah, and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah were Sheba and Dedan.

(1 Chronicles 1:10) 
Furthermore, Cush was the father of Nimrod; he was the first to become a mighty one on earth.

(1 Chronicles 1:11) 
Mizraim was the father of Ludim, Anamim, Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,

(1 Chronicles 1:12) 
and Pathrusim, and Casluhim—from whom the Philistines came—and Caphtorim.

(1 Chronicles 1:13) 
And Canaan was the father of Sidon, his firstborn, and Heth,

(1 Chronicles 1:14) 
and the Jebusites, and the Amorites, and the Girgashites,

(1 Chronicles 1:15) 
and the Hivites, and the Arkites, and the Sinites,

(1 Chronicles 1:16) 
and the Arvadites, and the Zemarites, and the Hamathites.

(1 Chronicles 1:17) 
The sons of Shem were Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud, Aram, Uz, Hul, Gether, and Mash.

(1 Chronicles 1:18) 
And Arphaxad was the father of Shelah, and Shelah was the father of Eber.

(1 Chronicles 1:19) 
Furthermore, two sons were born to Eber: one was named Peleg—because in his days the earth was divided—and his brother's name was Joktan.

(1 Chronicles 1:20) 
And Joktan was the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,

(1 Chronicles 1:21) 
and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,

(1 Chronicles 1:22) 
and Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba,

(1 Chronicles 1:23) 
as well as Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan.

(1 Chronicles 1:24) 
Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah,

(1 Chronicles 1:25) 
Eber, Peleg, Reu,

(1 Chronicles 1:26) 
Serug, Nahor, Terah,

(1 Chronicles 1:27) 
Abram, who is Abraham.

(1 Chronicles 1:28) 
And the sons of Abraham were Isaac and Ishmael.

(1 Chronicles 1:29) 
And these were their generations: Ishmael's firstborn was Nebaioth, then Kedar, Adbeel, and Mibsam,

(1 Chronicles 1:30) 
and Mishma, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema,

(1 Chronicles 1:31) 
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These were the sons of Ishmael.

(1 Chronicles 1:32) 
And the sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine, whom she bore to him, were Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan were Sheba and Dedan.

(1 Chronicles 1:33) 
And the sons of Midian were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abidah, and Eldaah. All these were the sons of Keturah.

(1 Chronicles 1:34) 
Abraham was the father of Isaac. And Isaac's sons were Esau and Israel.

(1 Chronicles 1:35) 
The sons of Esau were Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jaalam, and Korah.

(1 Chronicles 1:36) 
The sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, Kenaz, Timna, and Amalek.

(1 Chronicles 1:37) 
The sons of Reuel were Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.

(1 Chronicles 1:38) 
The sons of Seir were Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan.

(1 Chronicles 1:39) 
The sons of Lotan were Hori and Homam. Lotan's sister was Timna.

(1 Chronicles 1:40) 
The sons of Shobal were Alian, Manahath, Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. The sons of Zibeon were Aiah and Anah.

(1 Chronicles 2:1) 
These are the sons of Israel—who was also known as Jacob: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun,

(1 Chronicles 2:2) 
Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.

(1 Chronicles 2:3) 
The sons of Judah were Er, Onan, and Shelah. These three were born to him from the daughter of Shua, a Canaanite woman. Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord brought about his death.

(1 Chronicles 2:4) 
Moreover, his daughter-in-law Tamar bore him Perez and Zerah. Thus, Judah had a total of five sons.

(1 Chronicles 2:5) 
The sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul.

(1 Chronicles 2:6) 
The sons of Zerah were Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol, and Dara—a total of five sons.

(1 Chronicles 2:7) 
The son of Carmi was Achar, who brought trouble upon Israel by sinning against the things devoted to destruction by God's ban.

(1 Chronicles 2:8) 
The son of Ethan was Azariah.

(1 Chronicles 2:9) 
The sons of Hezron who were born to him were Jerahmeel, Ram, and Caleb.

(1 Chronicles 2:10) 
Furthermore, Ram fathered Amminadab. Amminadab in turn fathered Nahshon, who was a prince among the sons of Judah.

(1 Chronicles 2:11) 
Nahshon fathered Salma, and Salma fathered Boaz.

(1 Chronicles 2:12) 
Boaz also fathered Obed, and Obed fathered Jesse.

(1 Chronicles 2:13) 
Jesse fathered his firstborn, Eliab; his second son, Abinadab; and his third son, Shimea.

(1 Chronicles 2:14) 
His fourth son was Nethanel, and his fifth was Raddai.

(1 Chronicles 2:15) 
His sixth son was Ozem, and his seventh was David.

(1 Chronicles 2:16) 
Their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. The sons of Zeruiah were Abishai, Joab, and Asahel—three men.

(1 Chronicles 2:17) 
Abigail bore Amasa, whose father was Jether the Ishmaelite.

(1 Chronicles 2:18) 
Caleb, the son of Hezron, took a wife named Azubah, who bore him Jerioth. Azubah's sons by Caleb were Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon.

(1 Chronicles 2:19) 
After Azubah died, Caleb took another wife named Ephrath, who bore him Hur.

(1 Chronicles 2:20) 
Furthermore, Hur fathered Uri, and Uri fathered Bezalel.

(1 Chronicles 2:21) 
After these events, Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir, the father of Gilead, and took her as his wife when he was sixty years old. She bore him Segub.

(1 Chronicles 2:22) 
Segub also fathered Jair, who possessed twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead.

(1 Chronicles 2:23) 
Jair captured Geshur and Aram, as well as the towns bearing Jair's name, and Kenath with its sixty villages. All these men were descendants of Machir, the father of Gilead.

(1 Chronicles 2:24) 
After Hezron died in Caleb-Ephrathah, his wife Abiah bore him Ashur, the father of Tekoa.

(1 Chronicles 2:25) 
The sons born to Jerahmeel, Hezron's firstborn son, were Ram—who was Jerahmeel's firstborn—then Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah.

(1 Chronicles 2:26) 
Jerahmeel also took another wife, named Atarah, who was the mother of Onam.

(1 Chronicles 2:27) 
Furthermore, the sons of Ram, Jerahmeel's firstborn, were Maaz, Jamin, and Eker.

(1 Chronicles 2:28) 
The sons of Onam were Shammai and Jada. The sons of Shammai were Nadab and Abishur.

(1 Chronicles 2:29) 
The name of Abishur's wife was Abihail, who bore him Ahban and Molid.

(1 Chronicles 2:30) 
The sons of Nadab were Seled and Appaim. Seled died without having any children.

(1 Chronicles 2:31) 
The son of Appaim was Ishi. The son of Ishi was Sheshan. The son of Sheshan was Ahlai.

(1 Chronicles 2:32) 
The sons of Jada, Shammai's brother, were Jether and Jonathan. Jether died without having any children.

(1 Chronicles 2:33) 
Furthermore, the sons of Jonathan were Peleth and Ziza. These are the sons of Jerahmeel.

(1 Chronicles 2:34) 
Sheshan had no sons, only daughters. He also had an Egyptian servant named Jarha.

(1 Chronicles 2:35) 
So Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha as his wife, and she bore him Attai.

(1 Chronicles 2:36) 
Furthermore, Attai fathered Nathan, and Nathan fathered Zabad.

(1 Chronicles 2:37) 
Zabad also fathered Ephlal, and Ephlal fathered Obed.

(1 Chronicles 2:38) 
Obed fathered Jehu, and Jehu fathered Azariah.

(1 Chronicles 2:39) 
Azariah fathered Helez, and Helez fathered Eleasa.

(1 Chronicles 2:40) 
Eleasa fathered Sismai, and Sismai fathered Shallum.

(1 Chronicles 3:1) 
The sons of David who were born to him in Hebron were: The firstborn was Amnon, whose mother was Ahinoam from Jezreel; the second son was Daniel, whose mother was Abigail from Carmel.

(1 Chronicles 3:2) 
The third son was Absalom, whose mother was Maachah, daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur; the fourth son was Adonijah, whose mother was Haggith.

(1 Chronicles 3:3) 
The fifth son was Shephatiah, whose mother was Abital; the sixth son was Ithream, whose mother was Eglah, David’s wife.

(1 Chronicles 3:4) 
Therefore, these six sons were born to David in Hebron, where he reigned for seven years and six months. He then reigned in Jerusalem for thirty-three years.

(1 Chronicles 3:5) 
These are the sons who were born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon. These four sons were born from Bath-shua, daughter of Ammiel.

(1 Chronicles 3:6) 
Also, Ibhar, Elishama, and Eliphelet.

(1 Chronicles 3:7) 
And Nogah, Nepheg, and Japhia.

(1 Chronicles 3:8) 
In addition, Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet. These were nine sons in total.

(1 Chronicles 3:9) 
All these were the sons of David, not including the sons he had with his concubines. They also had a sister named Tamar.

(1 Chronicles 3:10) 
The son of Solomon was Rehoboam. Rehoboam’s son was Abijah. Abijah’s son was Asa. Asa’s son was Jehoshaphat.

(1 Chronicles 3:11) 
Jehoshaphat’s son was Ahaziah. Ahaziah’s son was Joash. Joash’s son was Amaziah. Amaziah’s son was Azariah. Azariah’s son was Jotham.

(1 Chronicles 3:12) 
Jotham’s son was Ahaz. Ahaz’s son was Hezekiah. Hezekiah’s son was Manasseh.

(1 Chronicles 3:13) 
Manasseh’s son was Amon. Amon’s son was Josiah.

(1 Chronicles 3:14) 
The sons of Josiah were: The firstborn was Johanan; the second son was Jehoiakim; the third son was Zedekiah; the fourth son was Shallum.

(1 Chronicles 3:15) 
The sons of Jehoiakim were: His son was Jeconiah, and his son was Zedekiah.

(1 Chronicles 3:16) 
From Jeconiah, his son Salathiel was born.

(1 Chronicles 3:17) 
Also from Jeconiah, his other sons were Malchiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.

(1 Chronicles 3:18) 
The sons of Pedaiah were Zerubbabel and Shimei. The sons of Zerubbabel were Meshullam, Hananiah, and their sister Shelomith.

(1 Chronicles 3:19) 
Also, the other sons of Zerubbabel were Hashubah, Ohel, Berechiah, Hasadiah, and Jushab-hesed. These were five additional sons.

(1 Chronicles 3:20) 
The sons of Hananiah were Pelatiah and Jeshaiah. Jeshaiah was the father of Rephaiah, who was the father of Arnan, who was the father of Obadiah, who was the father of Shecaniah.

(1 Chronicles 3:21) 
The son of Shecaniah was Shemaiah. And the sons of Shemaiah were Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah, and Shaphat. These were six sons.

(1 Chronicles 3:22) 
The sons of Neariah were Elioenai, Hezekiah, and Azrikam. These were three sons.

(1 Chronicles 3:23) 
The sons of Elioenai were Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah, and Anani. These were seven sons.

(1 Chronicles 3:24) 
The sons of Elioenai were Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah, and Anani. These were seven sons.

(1 Chronicles 4:1) 
The sons of Judah were Phares, Hesron, Charmi, Hur, and Sobal.

(1 Chronicles 4:2) 
Raia's son was Jaath, from whom Ahiud and Laad were born. These are the families of Sarai.

(1 Chronicles 4:3) 
And these are the descendants of Etam: Jezrahel, Jesema, and Jedebos, whose family name was 'Father of his brother'. Also listed are Nomina and Sarrhae.

(1 Chronicles 4:4) 
Phanuel was the father of Gedor, and Ezer was the father of Hosa. These men were the sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephratha, who was the father of Bethlehem.

(1 Chronicles 4:5) 
Assur, the father of Thecue, had two wives, Helea and Naara.

(1 Chronicles 4:6) 
Naara bore him Oza, Hepher, Themani, and Ahastari. These are the sons of Naara.

(1 Chronicles 4:7) 
The sons of Helea were Zereth, Sohar, and Ethnan.

(1 Chronicles 4:8) 
Furthermore, Cos fathered Anob and Sobeba, and the families of Aharhel, the son of Harum.

(1 Chronicles 4:9) 
Now there was a man of noble birth whose name was Jabes, more honorable than all his brothers. His mother called his name Jabes, saying, 'Because I bore him in sorrows.'

(1 Chronicles 4:10) 
Therefore, Jabes called upon the God of Israel, saying, 'If You truly bless me, and expand my territories, and if Your hand is with me, and You keep me from evil so that I do not suffer.' And God granted what he prayed for.

(1 Chronicles 4:11) 
Furthermore, Caleb, the brother of Sua, fathered Mehir, who was the father of Esthon.

(1 Chronicles 4:12) 
Esthon fathered Bethrapha, Phasea, and Tehinna, who was the father of the city of Naas. These are the men of Recab.

(1 Chronicles 4:13) 
The sons of Cenez were Othoniel and Saraia. The sons of Othoniel were Hathath and Maonathi.

(1 Chronicles 4:14) 
Maonathi fathered Ophra, and Saraia fathered Joab, the father of the Valley of Craftsmen, for they were indeed craftsmen.

(1 Chronicles 4:15) 
The sons of Caleb, the son of Jephone, were Hir, Ela, and Naham. The sons of Ela were Cenez.

(1 Chronicles 4:16) 
The sons of Jahaleleel were Ziph, Zipha, Thiria, and Asareel.

(1 Chronicles 4:17) 
The sons of Esra were Jether, Mered, Epher, and Jalon. He fathered Miriam, Sammai, and Jesba, the father of Esthamo.

(1 Chronicles 4:18) 
His Jewish wife bore Jared, the father of Gedor, and Heber, the father of Socho, and Jecuthiel, the father of Zanoe. These are the sons of Bechia, the daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered took as his wife.

(1 Chronicles 4:19) 
The sons of his wife Odaia, the sister of Naham, the father of Ceila, were Garmita and Esthamo, who was a Machathite.

(1 Chronicles 4:20) 
The sons of Simon were Amnon and Rina, and Hanan's son, and Thilon. And the sons of Jesi were Zoheth and Benzoheth.

(1 Chronicles 4:21) 
The sons of Sela, the son of Judah, were Her, the father of Lecha, and Laada, the father of Maresa. Also, the families of the house of those who worked fine linen in Bethsan.

(1 Chronicles 4:22) 
And these are the men of Lying, and the men of Soham, and the men of Chozeba, and those who were among the leaders, and those who returned to Bethlehem. These are the ancient records.

(1 Chronicles 4:23) 
These were potters who lived in plantations and among hedges. They remained with the king for his works.

(1 Chronicles 4:24) 
The sons of Simeon were Namuel, Jamin, Jarib, Zara, and Saul.

(1 Chronicles 4:25) 
Sallum was his son, Mabsam was his son, Masma was his son.

(1 Chronicles 4:26) 
The sons of Masma: Amus was his son, Misma was his son. The repetition of 'Misma filius ejus' in the Latin may indicate a distinct, repeated name, or it could be a scribal duplication in the original text.

(1 Chronicles 4:27) 
The sons of Amus: Zechur was his son, Semei was his son. Semei had sixteen sons and six daughters. His brothers did not have many children, and their entire family could not equal the number of the sons of Judah.

(1 Chronicles 4:28) 
They lived in Bersabee, Molada, and Hasarsual,

(1 Chronicles 4:29) 
And Bala, Asom, and Tholad,

(1 Chronicles 4:30) 
And Bathuel, Horma, and Siceleg,

(1 Chronicles 4:31) 
And Bethmarchaboth, Hasarsusim, Bethberai, and Saarim. These were their cities until the reign of King David.

(1 Chronicles 4:32) 
Their villages also included Etam, Ain, Remmon, Thochen, and Asan: five cities.

(1 Chronicles 4:33) 
And all their surrounding hamlets of these cities up to Baal. This was their dwelling place, and their tribal division.

(1 Chronicles 4:34) 
Masobab, Jemlech, and Josa, the son of Amasias,

(1 Chronicles 4:35) 
And Johel, and Jehu, the son of Josabia, the son of Saraia, the son of Asiel,

(1 Chronicles 4:36) 
And Elioenai, Jacoba, Isuhaia, Asaia, Adiel, Ismiel, and Banaia,

(1 Chronicles 4:37) 
And Ziza, the son of Sephei, the son of Allon, the son of Idaia, the son of Semri, the son of Samaia.

(1 Chronicles 4:38) 
These men, who were listed by name, were leaders in their families, and their ancestral houses were numerous.

(1 Chronicles 4:39) 
They went out, as commanded, to Gad, as far as Gador and to the eastern limits of the open country, to seek pasture for their flocks.

(1 Chronicles 4:40) 
And they found very rich and excellent pastures, and a very wide, peaceful, and fertile land, where people of the lineage of Cham had lived before them.

(1 Chronicles 5:1) 
The sons of Reuben, Israel's firstborn son. Even though Reuben himself was the firstborn of Jacob, because he defiled his father's marriage bed, his birthright was given to the sons of Joseph, the son of Israel. Therefore, Reuben was not reckoned as the firstborn in terms of the blessings of the birthright.

(1 Chronicles 5:2) 
The reason for this change in the birthright was that from Judah came mighty men, and from him arose the leader of the people—the royal family, that is—and he was not reckoned as the firstborn according to his genealogy, but according to God's choice for leadership.

(1 Chronicles 5:3) 
Now, the actual sons of Reuben, Israel's firstborn, were Enoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi.

(1 Chronicles 5:4) 
The sons of Joel were Shemaiah, his son; Gog, his son; Shimei, his son;

(1 Chronicles 5:5) 
Michah, his son; Reaiah, his son; Baal, his son;

(1 Chronicles 5:6) 
And Beerah, his son. Beerah was one of the leaders of the tribe of Reuben, whom Tiglath-Pileser, the king of Assyria, carried away captive to Babylon.

(1 Chronicles 5:7) 
His brothers, along with their entire clan, were counted according to their families. The chief men were Jeiel and Zechariah.

(1 Chronicles 5:8) 
Bela, the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, lived in Aroer, stretching as far as Nebo and Baal-Meon.

(1 Chronicles 5:9) 
Eastward, they extended their dwelling places all the way to the entrance of the desert, to the River Euphrates. This was because they owned a vast number of livestock in the land of Gilead.

(1 Chronicles 5:10) 
During the days of King Saul, they waged war against the Hagrites and defeated them. Afterward, they lived in the Hagrites' tents throughout the entire region east of Gilead.

(1 Chronicles 5:11) 
The sons of Gad lived opposite them, in the land of Bashan, as far as Salecah.

(1 Chronicles 5:12) 
Joel was the chief, and Shapham was second in command. Then Janai and Shaphat lived in Bashan.

(1 Chronicles 5:13) 
Their brothers, according to their families, were seven: Michael, Meshullam, Sheba, Jorai, Jacan, Zia, and Heber.

(1 Chronicles 5:14) 
These were the sons of Abihail, the son of Huri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai, the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz.

(1 Chronicles 5:15) 
Also, their brothers, the sons of Abihail, were chiefs of their families: Jahdo and Buz.

(1 Chronicles 5:16) 
These men lived in Gilead, in Bashan and its surrounding villages, and in all the open pasturelands of Sharon, up to their borders.

(1 Chronicles 5:17) 
All these men were recorded in the genealogies during the reigns of Jotham, king of Judah, and Jeroboam, king of Israel.

(1 Chronicles 5:18) 
The sons of Reuben, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh were all valiant men, capable warriors. They carried shields and swords, were skilled archers, and knew how to fight in battle. Those who went out to war numbered forty-six thousand seven hundred and thirty.

(1 Chronicles 5:19) 
They fought against the Hagrites, along with the Jeturites, Naphishites, and Nodabites.

(1 Chronicles 5:20) 
They received help against these enemies. The Hagrites and all who were with them were delivered into their hands. This victory occurred because the Israelite warriors cried out to the Lord during the battle, and He heard their prayers, for they trusted in Him.

(1 Chronicles 5:21) 
They carried away as plunder their livestock: fifty thousand camels, two hundred fifty thousand sheep, two thousand donkeys, and one hundred thousand people as captives.

(1 Chronicles 5:22) 
Many of their enemies were killed because the battle was fought under God's righteous judgment. And the Reubenites, Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh lived in their place until the time of the exile.

(1 Chronicles 5:23) 
The sons of the half-tribe of Manasseh possessed the land from Bashan to Baal-Hermon, Senir, and Mount Hermon, for they had become very numerous.

(1 Chronicles 5:24) 
These were the chiefs of their family divisions in the half-tribe of Manasseh: Epher, Ishi, Eliel, Azriel, Jeremiah, Hodaviah, and Jahdiel. They were brave and powerful men, well-known leaders of their respective families.

(1 Chronicles 5:25) 
However, these tribes committed spiritual adultery against the God of their fathers. They prostituted themselves by following the gods of the peoples of the land, whom God had removed from before them.

(1 Chronicles 5:26) 
Therefore, the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul, king of Assyria, also known as Tiglath-Pileser, king of Assyria. He carried away the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, bringing them to Halah, Habor, Hara, and to the river Gozan, where they remain to this very day.

(1 Chronicles 5:27) 
The sons of Levi were Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

(1 Chronicles 5:28) 
The sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel.

(1 Chronicles 5:29) 
The sons of Amram were Aaron, Moses, and Miriam. The sons of Aaron were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

(1 Chronicles 5:30) 
Eleazar fathered Phinehas, and Phinehas fathered Abishua.

(1 Chronicles 5:31) 
Abishua fathered Bukki, and Bukki fathered Uzzi.

(1 Chronicles 5:32) 
Uzzi fathered Zerahiah, and Zerahiah fathered Meraioth.

(1 Chronicles 5:33) 
Meraioth fathered Amariah, and Amariah fathered Ahitub.

(1 Chronicles 5:34) 
Ahitub fathered Zadok, and Zadok fathered Ahimaaz.

(1 Chronicles 5:35) 
Ahimaaz fathered Azariah, and Azariah fathered Johanan.

(1 Chronicles 5:36) 
Johanan fathered Azariah. This Azariah was the one who served as priest in the Temple that King Solomon built in Jerusalem.

(1 Chronicles 5:37) 
Azariah fathered Amariah, and Amariah fathered Ahitub.

(1 Chronicles 5:38) 
Ahitub fathered Zadok, and Zadok fathered Shallum.

(1 Chronicles 5:39) 
Shallum fathered Hilkiah, and Hilkiah fathered Azariah.

(1 Chronicles 5:40) 
Azariah fathered Seraiah, and Seraiah fathered Jehozadak.

(1 Chronicles 6:1) 
The children of Levi were Gerson, Caath, and Merari.

(1 Chronicles 6:2) 
The children of Caath were Amram, Isahar, Hebron, and Oziel.

(1 Chronicles 6:3) 
The children of Amram were Aaron, Moyses, and Maria. The children of Aaron were Nadab, Abiu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

(1 Chronicles 6:4) 
Eleazar was the father of Phinees, and Phinees was the father of Abisue.

(1 Chronicles 6:5) 
Abisue was the father of Bocci, and Bocci was the father of Ozi.

(1 Chronicles 6:6) 
Ozi was the father of Zarahiæ, and Zarahiæ was the father of Meraioth.

(1 Chronicles 6:7) 
Meraioth was the father of Amariam, and Amariam was the father of Achitob.

(1 Chronicles 6:8) 
Achitob was the father of Sadoc, and Sadoc was the father of Achimaas.

(1 Chronicles 6:9) 
Achimaas was the father of Azariam, and Azariam was the father of Johanan.

(1 Chronicles 6:10) 
Johanan was the father of Azariam. This Azarias was the priest who ministered in the house which Solomon built in Jerusalem.

(1 Chronicles 6:11) 
Azarias was the father of Amariam, and Amariam was the father of Achitob.

(1 Chronicles 6:12) 
Achitob was the father of Sadoc, and Sadoc was the father of Sellum.

(1 Chronicles 6:13) 
Sellum was the father of Helcias, and Helcias was the father of Azariam.

(1 Chronicles 6:14) 
Azarias was the father of Saraiam, and Saraiam was the father of Josedec.

(1 Chronicles 6:15) 
Moreover, Josedec went into exile when the Lord allowed Nabuchodonosor to carry away the people of Judah and Jerusalem.

(1 Chronicles 6:16) 
The children of Levi were Gerson, Caath, and Merari.

(1 Chronicles 6:17) 
And these are the names of the children of Gerson: Lobni and Semei.

(1 Chronicles 6:18) 
The children of Caath were Amram, Isahar, Hebron, and Oziel.

(1 Chronicles 6:19) 
The children of Merari were Moholi and Musi. Now these are the descendants of Levi according to their family groups.

(1 Chronicles 6:20) 
From Gerson: his son Lobni, his son Jahath, his son Zamma.

(1 Chronicles 6:21) 
His son Joah, his son Addo, his son Zara, his son Jethrai.

(1 Chronicles 6:22) 
The children of Caath were: his son Aminadab, his son Core, his son Asir.

(1 Chronicles 6:23) 
His son Elcana, his son Abiasaph, his son Asir.

(1 Chronicles 6:24) 
His son Thahath, his son Uriel, his son Ozias, his son Saul.

(1 Chronicles 6:25) 
The children of Elcana were Amasai and Achimoth.

(1 Chronicles 6:26) 
His son Elcana, his son Sophai, his son Nahath.

(1 Chronicles 6:27) 
His son Eliab, his son Jeroham, his son Elcana.

(1 Chronicles 6:28) 
The children of Samuel were: his firstborn, Vasseni, and Abia.

(1 Chronicles 6:29) 
The children of Merari were: Moholi, his son Lobni, his son Semei, his son Oza.

(1 Chronicles 6:30) 
His son Samaa, his son Haggia, his son Asaia.

(1 Chronicles 6:31) 
These are the men whom David appointed to oversee the singers in the house of the Lord, from the time the ark was placed there.

(1 Chronicles 6:32) 
And they ministered before the tabernacle of testimony with singing, until Solomon built the house of the Lord in Jerusalem; they stood in their service according to their appointed order.

(1 Chronicles 6:33) 
Now these are the men who assisted with their sons, from the children of Caath: Hemam, the singer, son of Johel, son of Samuel.

(1 Chronicles 6:34) 
Son of Elcana, son of Jeroham, son of Eliel, son of Thoë.

(1 Chronicles 6:35) 
Son of Suph, son of Elcana, son of Maath, son of Amasai.

(1 Chronicles 6:36) 
Son of Elcana, son of Johel, son of Azariæ, son of Sophoniæ.

(1 Chronicles 6:37) 
Son of Thahath, son of Asir, son of Abiasaph, son of Core.

(1 Chronicles 6:38) 
Son of Isaar, son of Caath, son of Levi, son of Israel.

(1 Chronicles 6:39) 
And his brother Asaph, who stood at his right hand, was Asaph, son of Barachiæ, son of Samaa.

(1 Chronicles 6:40) 
Son of Michaël, son of Basaia, son of Melchiæ.

(1 Chronicles 7:1) 
Now the sons of Issachar were Tola, Phua, Jasub, and Somer—a total of four sons.

(1 Chronicles 7:2) 
The sons of Tola were Uzzi, Raphaia, Jerihel, Jemai, Jebsem, and Samuel. These men became the heads of their families, mighty warriors from their ancestral lines. Their total number, as recorded in the days of King David, was two hundred twenty thousand six hundred.

(1 Chronicles 7:3) 
The son of Uzzi was Izrahia. And Izrahia's sons were Michaël, Abdia, Joel, and Jesia—a total of five, all of whom became family heads.

(1 Chronicles 7:4) 
With these men and their extended families, according to their relationships and households, there were thirty-six thousand mighty men ready for battle, because they had many wives and many sons.

(1 Chronicles 7:5) 
Their brothers, from all the families of Issachar, were mighty men for battle, totaling ninety-seven thousand.

(1 Chronicles 7:6) 
The sons of Benjamin were Bela, Becher, and Jadihel—a total of three.

(1 Chronicles 7:7) 
The sons of Bela were Esbon, Uzzi, Uziel, Jerimoth, and Uri—five in total. These were the heads of families, mighty warriors. Their number was twenty-two thousand thirty-four.

(1 Chronicles 7:8) 
The sons of Becher were Zamira, Joas, Eliezer, Elioenai, Omri, Jerimoth, Abia, Anathoth, and Almath. All these were the sons of Becher.

(1 Chronicles 7:9) 
The count of these men, by their families, who were heads of families and mighty in battle, was twenty thousand two hundred.

(1 Chronicles 7:10) 
The son of Jadihel was Balan. And the sons of Balan were Jehus, Benjamin, Aod, Chanana, Zethan, Tharsis, and Ahisahar.

(1 Chronicles 7:11) 
All these, the sons of Jadihel, were heads of families and mighty men of war, numbering seventeen thousand two hundred who were ready for battle.

(1 Chronicles 7:12) 
Also Sepham and Huppham were the sons of Hir. And Husim was a son of Aher.

(1 Chronicles 7:13) 
The sons of Nephthali were Jasiel, Guni, Jezer, and Sellum—these were the sons of Bala.

(1 Chronicles 7:14) 
The sons of Manasseh: Asrihel. And his Syrian concubine bore Machir, who became the father of Galaad.

(1 Chronicles 7:15) 
Machir took wives for his sons Hupphim and Supphim. He also had a sister named Maacha. The name of his second son was Salphaad, who had only daughters.

(1 Chronicles 7:16) 
Maacha, Machir's wife, bore a son and called his name Phares. His brother's name was Sares. His sons were Ulam and Recem.

(1 Chronicles 7:17) 
The son of Ulam was Badan. These were the sons of Galaad, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh.

(1 Chronicles 7:18) 
His sister, Regina, bore Isod, Abihi, and Mahela.

(1 Chronicles 7:19) 
The sons of Semida were Ahian, Sechem, Leci, and Aniam.

(1 Chronicles 7:20) 
The sons of Ephraim: Suthela, whose son was Bared; whose son was Ruhapha; whose son was Reseph; whose son was Thale; whose son was Aran.

(1 Chronicles 7:21) 
His son was Badam; whose son was Zathan; whose son was Eden. His brother was Berad, and Thaha. The men who were native to Geth killed them because they had gone down to plunder their livestock.

(1 Chronicles 7:22) 
Ephraim, their father, was struck with grief for many days, and his brothers came to comfort him.

(1 Chronicles 7:23) 
Then he went to his wife, who conceived and bore a son, and he called his name Beria because he was born during a time of evil in his household.

(1 Chronicles 7:24) 
His daughter was Sara, who built the lower and upper Bethoron, and Uzzen Sara.

(1 Chronicles 7:25) 
His son was Rapha, and Reseph, and Thale, from whom Taan was born.

(1 Chronicles 7:26) 
Taan begot Laadan; Laadan's son was Ammiud; Ammiud's son was Elisama.

(1 Chronicles 7:27) 
Elisama's son was Nun; Nun's son was Josue.

(1 Chronicles 7:28) 
Their possessions and dwellings were Bethel with its villages, and to the east, Noran; to the west, Gazer with its villages; also Sichem with its villages, all the way to Azam and its villages.

(1 Chronicles 7:29) 
Alongside the sons of Manasseh, their territory included Bethsan with its villages, Thanach with its villages, Mageddo with its villages, and Gezer with its villages. In these places the sons of Joseph, the sons of Israel, lived.

(1 Chronicles 7:30) 
The sons of Aser were Jemna, Jesua, Jessui, and Beria, with Sara as their sister.

(1 Chronicles 7:31) 
The sons of Beria were Heber and Melchiel. Melchiel was the father of Barsaith.

(1 Chronicles 7:32) 
Heber begot Jephlat, Somer, Hotham, and Suaa, their sister.

(1 Chronicles 7:33) 
The sons of Jephlat were Phosech, Bamaal, and Asoth. These were Jephlat's sons.

(1 Chronicles 7:34) 
The sons of Somer were Roaga, Haba, and Aram.

(1 Chronicles 7:35) 
And the sons of Hotham were Supha, Jemna, Seles, and Amal.

(1 Chronicles 7:36) 
The sons of Aser: from Supha were Sue, Harnapher, Sual, Beri, and Jamra.

(1 Chronicles 7:37) 
And Bosor, and Hod, and Sama, and Selesa, and Jethran, and Bera.

(1 Chronicles 7:38) 
The sons of Jether were Jephone, Phaspha, and Ara.

(1 Chronicles 7:39) 
The sons of Ulla were Arah, Hanniel, and Resia.

(1 Chronicles 7:40) 
All these were the sons of Aser, heads of families, chosen as mighty leaders among the chiefs. The number of men who were prepared to be led into battle was twenty-six thousand.

(1 Chronicles 8:1) 
Now Benjamin fathered his firstborn son, Bala. His second son was Asbel, and his third was Ahara.

(1 Chronicles 8:2) 
His fourth son was Noha, and his fifth was Rapha.

(1 Chronicles 8:3) 
The sons of Bala were Addar, Gera, and Abihud.

(1 Chronicles 8:4) 
Also, Abishua, Naaman, and Ahiah.

(1 Chronicles 8:5) 
And Gera, Sephuphan, and Huram.

(1 Chronicles 8:6) 
These were the sons of Ehud, who were the chiefs of the families living in Geba. They were moved and settled in Manahath.

(1 Chronicles 8:7) 
These were Naaman, Ahiah, and Gera. It was Gera himself who relocated them, and he fathered Uzza and Ahihud.

(1 Chronicles 8:8) 
Furthermore, Shaharaim fathered children in the region of Moab after he had sent away his wives Hushim and Baara.

(1 Chronicles 8:9) 
Now, by his wife Hodes, he fathered Jobab, Zebiah, Mesha, and Malcam.

(1 Chronicles 8:10) 
Also Jeus, Sachia, and Mirma. These are his sons, who were chiefs of families.

(1 Chronicles 8:11) 
From Hushim, however, he fathered Ahitub and Elpaal.

(1 Chronicles 8:12) 
Now the sons of Elpaal were Heber, Misham, and Shemed. It was Shemed who built Ono and Lod, along with their surrounding villages.

(1 Chronicles 8:13) 
Also, Beriah and Shema were chiefs of families who lived in Aijalon. These were the ones who drove out the inhabitants of Gath.

(1 Chronicles 8:14) 
Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth.

(1 Chronicles 8:15) 
Zebadiah, Arad, and Eder.

(1 Chronicles 8:16) 
Michael, Ishpah, and Joha were the sons of Beriah.

(1 Chronicles 8:17) 
Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, and Heber.

(1 Chronicles 8:18) 
Also Ishmerai, Izliah, and Jobab were sons of Elpaal.

(1 Chronicles 8:19) 
Jakim, Zichri, and Zabdi.

(1 Chronicles 8:20) 
Elienai, Zilthai, and Eliel.

(1 Chronicles 8:21) 
Adaiah, Beraiah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei.

(1 Chronicles 8:22) 
Ishpan, Heber, and Eliel.

(1 Chronicles 8:23) 
Abdon, Zichri, and Hanan.

(1 Chronicles 8:24) 
Hananiah, Elam, and Antothiah.

(1 Chronicles 8:25) 
Iphedeiah and Penuel were the sons of Shashak.

(1 Chronicles 8:26) 
Shamsherai, Shehariah, and Athaliah.

(1 Chronicles 8:27) 
Jereshiah, Eliah, and Zichri were the sons of Jeroham.

(1 Chronicles 8:28) 
These were the chiefs of the families and their lineages. These chiefs dwelt in Jerusalem.

(1 Chronicles 8:29) 
Now, in Gibeon, the father, or founder, of Gibeon dwelt, and the name of his wife was Maachah.

(1 Chronicles 8:30) 
And his firstborn son was Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, and Nadab.

(1 Chronicles 8:31) 
Also Gedor, Ahio, and Zecher.

(1 Chronicles 8:32) 
And Mikloth fathered Shimeah. These lived alongside their relatives in Jerusalem, within the community of their brothers.

(1 Chronicles 8:33) 
Furthermore, Ner fathered Kish. Kish fathered Saul. And Saul fathered Jonathan, Malchishua, Abinadab, and Esh-baal.

(1 Chronicles 8:34) 
And Jonathan's son was Meribbaal. And Meribbaal fathered Micah.

(1 Chronicles 8:35) 
Now the sons of Micah were Pithon, Melech, Tahrea, and Ahaz.

(1 Chronicles 8:36) 
And Ahaz fathered Jehoaddah. And Jehoaddah fathered Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. And Zimri fathered Moza.

(1 Chronicles 8:37) 
And Moza fathered Binea, who was the father of Rapha. And Rapha fathered Eleasah. And Eleasah fathered Azel.

(1 Chronicles 8:38) 
Now Azel had six sons. Their names were Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.

(1 Chronicles 8:39) 
Now the sons of Eshek, his brother, were Ulam his firstborn, Jeush his second, and Eliphelet his third.

(1 Chronicles 8:40) 
Now the sons of Ulam were exceptionally strong men and skilled archers. They had many sons and descendants, up to one hundred and fifty in number. All these were from the sons of Benjamin.

(1 Chronicles 9:1) 
And all of Israel was counted and their records are found in the books of the kings of Judah and Israel; and they were taken away as exiles to Babylon because of their sins.

(1 Chronicles 9:2) 
The first people to resettle in their cities and lands were these leaders: the Israelites, the priests, the Levites, and the Nethinim.

(1 Chronicles 9:3) 
In Jerusalem itself, the following groups lived: some from the children of Judah, and some from the children of Benjamin, and some from the children of Ephraim and Manasseh.

(1 Chronicles 9:4) 
Uthai, son of Ammiud, son of Omri, son of Bana, from the children of Perez, son of Judah.

(1 Chronicles 9:5) 
And from the line of Shelah, there was Asaiah the firstborn, and his sons.

(1 Chronicles 9:6) 
From the children of Zerah, there was Jeuel, and his six hundred and ninety brothers.

(1 Chronicles 9:7) 
And from the children of Benjamin: Sallu, son of Meshullam, son of Hodaviah, son of Hassenuah.

(1 Chronicles 9:8) 
And Ibneiah, son of Jeroham; and Elah, son of Uzzi, son of Michri; and Meshullam, son of Shephathiah, son of Reuel, son of Ibnijah.

(1 Chronicles 9:9) 
And their brothers, according to their family lines, numbered nine hundred and fifty-six. All these were heads of households, according to their family units.

(1 Chronicles 9:10) 
And among the priests were: Jedaiah, Jehoiarib, Jachin.

(1 Chronicles 9:11) 
And Azariah, son of Hilkiah, son of Meshullam, son of Zadok, son of Meraioth, son of Ahitub, who was the ruler of the House of God.

(1 Chronicles 9:12) 
Also Adaiah, son of Jeroham, son of Pashhur, son of Malchijah; and Maasai, son of Adiel, son of Jahzerah, son of Meshullam, son of Meshillemith, son of Immer.

(1 Chronicles 9:13) 
And their brothers, who were heads of households, numbered one thousand seven hundred and sixty. They were very mighty in strength for the work of the service of the House of God.

(1 Chronicles 9:14) 
Now from the Levites: Shemaiah, son of Hasshub, son of Azrikam, son of Hashabiah, from the children of Merari.

(1 Chronicles 9:15) 
Bakbakkar, Heresh, Galal; Mattaniah, son of Micah, son of Zichri, son of Asaph.

(1 Chronicles 9:16) 
And Obadiah, son of Shemaiah, son of Galal, son of Jeduthun; and Berechiah, son of Asa, son of Elkanah, who lived in the settlements of Netophah.

(1 Chronicles 9:17) 
Now the gatekeepers were: Shallum, Akkub, Talmon, and Ahiman. And their brothers; Shallum was their chief.

(1 Chronicles 9:18) 
Until now, they were the gatekeepers at the King's Gate, which is to the east, serving in their assigned shifts, these sons of Levi.

(1 Chronicles 9:19) 
Furthermore, Shallum, son of Kore, son of Ebiasaph, son of Korah—with his brothers and his father's household, the Korahites—they were in charge of the work of the ministry, as guardians of the thresholds of the tabernacle. And their family lines, in their assigned shifts, were responsible for guarding the Lord's encampment.

(1 Chronicles 9:20) 
Now Phinehas, son of Eleazar, was their leader before the Lord.

(1 Chronicles 9:21) 
And Zechariah, son of Meshelemiah, was the gatekeeper of the entrance to the Tabernacle of the Covenant.

(1 Chronicles 9:22) 
All these chosen gatekeepers for the entrances numbered two hundred and twelve. They were assigned to their own villages, whom David and Samuel the prophet had appointed in their faithfulness to God.

(1 Chronicles 9:23) 
Both they themselves and their sons were responsible for guarding the entrances to the Lord's tabernacle.

(1 Chronicles 9:24) 
The gatekeepers were stationed at the four cardinal directions: to the east, west, north, and south.

(1 Chronicles 9:25) 
Their brothers lived in their own villages so that they could come every seven days and take their shift with them.

(1 Chronicles 9:26) 
For these were the chief gatekeepers from the Levitical lineage, holding their positions by trust. They were also in charge of the treasuries, and of the sacred treasures.

(1 Chronicles 9:27) 
It was also their duty to open the doors every morning.

(1 Chronicles 9:28) 
Some of them were also responsible for the vessels of ministry, and these were brought in and taken out by count.

(1 Chronicles 9:29) 
Others among them were entrusted with the sacred vessels, and all the vessels for the ceremonial rites, as well as the fine flour, wine, oil, incense, and spices.

(1 Chronicles 9:30) 
But it was the sons of the priests who prepared the mixtures of ointments.

(1 Chronicles 9:31) 
And Mattithiah, a Levite, the firstborn of Shallum the Korahite, was entrusted with the preparation of the offerings baked on griddles.

(1 Chronicles 9:32) 
And some of their brothers, from the children of Kohath, were responsible for the bread of the Presence, making sure new loaves were prepared every Sabbath.

(1 Chronicles 9:33) 
These are the singers, who were heads of Levitical households, and they lived in special chambers. They were continually serving in their ministry both day and night.

(1 Chronicles 9:34) 
These were the heads of the Levitical households, according to their generations and dwelling places. These were the chief men.

(1 Chronicles 9:35) 
Now in Gibeon, Jeiel, the father of Gibeon, lived there; and the name of his wife was Maacah.

(1 Chronicles 9:36) 
His firstborn son was Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, and Nadab.

(1 Chronicles 9:37) 
Also Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah, and Mikloth.

(1 Chronicles 9:38) 
Mikloth begot Shimeam. These also lived alongside their relatives in Jerusalem, with their brothers.

(1 Chronicles 9:39) 
Ner begot Kish; Kish begot Saul; and Saul begot Jonathan, Malchishua, Abinadab, and Eshbaal.

(1 Chronicles 9:40) 
And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal; and Meribbaal begot Micah. And the sons of Micah were Pithon, Melech, Tahrea, and Ahaz.

(1 Chronicles 10:1) 
So then, the Philistines were fighting against Israel. The Israelite soldiers fled from the Philistines and fell, wounded, on Mount Gilboa.

(1 Chronicles 10:2) 
The Philistines pursued Saul and his sons, and they struck down Jonathan, Abinadab, and Malchisua, who were Saul's sons.

(1 Chronicles 10:3) 
The battle intensified against Saul, and the archers found him and wounded him with their arrows.

(1 Chronicles 10:4) 
Saul then said to his armor-bearer: 'Draw your sword and run me through, so that these uncircumcised enemies (the Philistines, viewed with religious contempt by the Israelites) don't come and mock me.' But his armor-bearer refused, utterly terrified.

(1 Chronicles 10:5) 
So Saul took his own sword and fell upon it.

(1 Chronicles 10:6) 
When his armor-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell upon his own sword and died.

(1 Chronicles 10:7) 
Now all the Israelites who lived in the valleys, upon seeing that the Israelite soldiers had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, abandoned their cities and every location, and fled. Then the Philistines came and settled there.

(1 Chronicles 10:8) 
So on the next day, the Philistines came to strip the dead, and they found Saul and his sons lying on Mount Gilboa.

(1 Chronicles 10:9) 
They cut off his head and stripped him of his armor, and sent them throughout the land of the Philistines (to publicly announce their victory), to be displayed among the temples of their idols and to be shown to their own people.

(1 Chronicles 10:10) 
They placed Saul's armor in the temple of Astaroth (a pagan goddess), and fastened his head in the temple of Dagon (a pagan god).

(1 Chronicles 10:11) 
When all the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead heard this about everything the Philistines had done to Saul (their former deliverer),

(1 Chronicles 10:12) 
All the bravest men rose up and took the bodies of Saul and his sons. They brought them to Jabesh and buried their bones under the oak tree that was in Jabesh. And they fasted for seven days (in mourning).

(1 Chronicles 10:13) 
So Saul died because of his sins: because he had transgressed the command of the Lord, which he had not kept, and moreover, he had even consulted a witch (a diviner, a practice forbidden by God).

(1 Chronicles 10:14) 
and had not trusted in the Lord. Therefore, the Lord killed him and transferred his kingdom to David, the son of Jesse.

(1 Chronicles 11:1) 
So then, all of Israel gathered to David in Hebron, saying, "Behold, we are your bone and your flesh," meaning we are your family and kin.

(1 Chronicles 11:2) 
Even long ago, while Saul was still reigning, you were the one who led Israel out to battle and brought them back. And the Lord your God told you: "You shall shepherd My people Israel, and you shall be their chosen leader."

(1 Chronicles 11:3) 
So then, all the elders of Israel came to the king in Hebron. And David made a covenant with them in Hebron before the Lord. And they anointed him king over Israel, just as the Lord had spoken through Samuel.

(1 Chronicles 11:4) 
Then David and all of Israel went to Jerusalem—which is also called Jebus, where the Jebusites were living in the land.

(1 Chronicles 11:5) 
But the inhabitants of Jebus said to David, "You shall not enter here!" Nevertheless, David captured the stronghold of Sion, which is now known as the City of David.

(1 Chronicles 11:6) 
David had said earlier, "Whoever strikes down a Jebusite first will be made chief and a commander." So Joab, the son of Sarvia, went up first, and he became the chief.

(1 Chronicles 11:7) 
And David lived in that stronghold, which is why it was called the City of David.

(1 Chronicles 11:8) 
And David built up the city all around, from Millo and extending in a circle. Meanwhile, Joab restored the rest of the city.

(1 Chronicles 11:9) 
And David became very great, continually growing and becoming more prominent, for the Lord of hosts was with him.

(1 Chronicles 11:10) 
These also are the chiefs of David's mighty men, who helped him become king over all of Israel, in accordance with the word of the Lord.

(1 Chronicles 11:11) 
And this is the number of David's mighty men: Jasobaam, the son of Hachamoni, who was chief among the thirty. He lifted his spear against three hundred men and wounded them all at one time.

(1 Chronicles 11:12) 
After him was Eleazar, the son of his uncle Dodo the Ahohite, who was among the three most powerful.

(1 Chronicles 11:13) 
He was with David at Pas Dammim, when the Philistines gathered for battle. And the field was full of Philistines, and there was a field of barley there.

(1 Chronicles 11:14) 
When the people had fled from the Philistines, Eleazar stood in the middle of the field and delivered it from the enemy. He struck down the Philistines, and the Lord saved them with a great salvation through Eleazar's action.

(1 Chronicles 11:15) 
Moreover, three of the thirty chiefs went down to the rock where David was, in the cave of Adullam, while the Philistines were camped in the Valley of Rephaim.

(1 Chronicles 11:16) 
David was then in the stronghold, and a garrison of Philistines was in Bethlehem.

(1 Chronicles 11:17) 
So David longed for something and said, "Oh, if only someone would give me water from the well of Bethlehem, which is by the gate!"

(1 Chronicles 11:18) 
And the three mighty men broke through the middle of the Philistine camp and drew water from the well of Bethlehem, which was by the gate, and brought it to David. But he refused to drink it. Instead, he poured it out as a libation to the Lord.

(1 Chronicles 11:19) 
David said, "Far be it from me to do this in the sight of my God! Shall I drink the blood of these men? For at the risk of their very lives they brought this water to me." And for this reason, he refused to drink it. These were the acts of the three most mighty men.

(1 Chronicles 11:20) 
Abisai, Joab's brother, was also chief of the three. He himself lifted his spear against three hundred men and killed them, and he had as great a reputation among the three as the others.

(1 Chronicles 11:21) 
Among the three, he was second and more renowned, and he was like a leader to them. Nevertheless, he did not attain to the fame of the first three.

(1 Chronicles 11:22) 
Banaias, the son of Jojada, a most courageous man from Cabseel, accomplished many great deeds. He struck down two lion-like men of Moab, and he himself went down into a pit and killed a lion on a snowy day.

(1 Chronicles 11:23) 
He also killed an Egyptian of incredible stature, who had a spear in his hand like a weaver's beam. Banaias went down to him with only a staff, took the spear from him, and killed him with his own spear.

(1 Chronicles 11:24) 
These things Banaias, the son of Jojada, accomplished, and he was renowned among the three most powerful men.

(1 Chronicles 11:25) 
He was chief among the thirty, yet he did not attain to the fame of the first three. But David appointed him to his inner circle, meaning he became a close and trusted advisor.

(1 Chronicles 11:26) 
Now the bravest men of the army were Asahel, Joab's brother, and Elchanan, the son of his uncle Dodo from Bethlehem,

(1 Chronicles 11:27) 
Sammoth the Harorite, Helles the Pelonite,

(1 Chronicles 11:28) 
Ira, the son of Acces the Tekoite, Abiezer the Anathothite,

(1 Chronicles 11:29) 
Sobochai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite,

(1 Chronicles 11:30) 
Maharai the Netophathite, Heled, the son of Baana the Netophathite,

(1 Chronicles 11:31) 
Ittai, the son of Ribai, from Gibeah of the sons of Benjamin, Banaia the Pirathonite,

(1 Chronicles 11:32) 
Hurai from the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite,

(1 Chronicles 11:33) 
Azmoth the Baharumite, Eliaba the Shaalbonite,

(1 Chronicles 11:34) 
The sons of Assan the Gizonite, Jonathan, the son of Sage the Hararite,

(1 Chronicles 11:35) 
Ahiam, the son of Sachar the Hararite, Eliphal, the son of Ur,

(1 Chronicles 11:36) 
Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahia the Pelonite,

(1 Chronicles 11:37) 
Hesro the Carmelite, Naarai, the son of Azbai,

(1 Chronicles 11:38) 
Joel, Nathan's brother, Mibahar, the son of Hagri,

(1 Chronicles 11:39) 
Selec the Ammonite, Naharai the Beerothite, who was the armor-bearer for Joab, the son of Sarvia,

(1 Chronicles 11:40) 
Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite.

(1 Chronicles 12:1) 
These are the ones who came to David in Ziklag while he was still fleeing King Saul, the son of Kish. These men were very strong and excellent fighters.

(1 Chronicles 12:2) 
They were skilled with the bow and could sling stones and shoot arrows with either hand. These men were even from Saul’s own kinsmen, from the tribe of Benjamin.

(1 Chronicles 12:3) 
The chief Aheizer, and Joas, sons of Samaa, from Gibeah; also Jaziel and Pheleth, sons of Azmoth; and Baracha and Jehu from Anathoth.

(1 Chronicles 12:4) 
There was also Samaia from Gibeon, who was the strongest among the thirty, and even above them in command. From Gederah were Jeremias, Jeheziel, Johanan, and Jozabad.

(1 Chronicles 12:5) 
Eluzai, Jerimuth, Baalia, Samaria, and Sephatia, all Haruphites.

(1 Chronicles 12:6) 
Celcana, Jesia, Azareel, Joezer, and Jasabaam, all Carithites.

(1 Chronicles 12:7) 
And Joela and Zabadia, the sons of Jeroham, from Gedor.

(1 Chronicles 12:8) 
And from the tribe of Gad, men also deserted to David when he was hiding out in the desert. They were very strong men and excellent warriors, bearing shields and spears. Their faces were as fierce as lions, and they were as swift as gazelles on the mountains.

(1 Chronicles 12:9) 
Ezer was their chief, Obadias was second in command, and Eliab was third.

(1 Chronicles 12:10) 
Masmana was fourth, and Jeremias was fifth.

(1 Chronicles 12:11) 
Ethi was sixth, and Eliel was seventh.

(1 Chronicles 12:12) 
Johanan was eighth, and Elzebad was ninth.

(1 Chronicles 12:13) 
Jeremias was tenth, and Machbanai was eleventh.

(1 Chronicles 12:14) 
These men from the sons of Gad were commanders in the army. The least capable among them commanded a hundred soldiers, and the greatest among them commanded a thousand.

(1 Chronicles 12:15) 
These were the men who crossed the Jordan River in the first month of the year, when the waters overflowed its banks due to the spring floods. They drove away everyone who was dwelling in the valleys, on both the eastern and western sides.

(1 Chronicles 12:16) 
Some men also came from Benjamin and Judah to the strongholds where David was staying.

(1 Chronicles 12:17) 
David went out to meet them and said: "If you have come to me peacefully to help me, then my heart will be united with you. But if you are here to betray me to my adversaries—even though I have done no wrong—then may the God of our fathers see it and judge you."

(1 Chronicles 12:18) 
Then the Spirit of God empowered Amasai, who was a chief among the thirty, and he said: "We are yours, O David, and we are with you, son of Jesse! Peace, peace to you, and peace to all who help you, for your God truly helps you." So David received them and made them commanders of his troops.

(1 Chronicles 12:19) 
Furthermore, some men from the tribe of Manasseh also deserted to David when he was coming with the Philistines to fight against Saul. But David did not actually fight with the Philistines, because the Philistine princes, after careful deliberation, sent him away, saying, "He will surely turn back to his master Saul at the cost of our lives, endangering us."

(1 Chronicles 12:20) 
Therefore, when David returned to Ziklag, men from Manasseh deserted to him: Ednas, Jozabad, Jediel, Michael, Jozabad, Eliu, and Silthai. These were commanders of thousands within the tribe of Manasseh.

(1 Chronicles 12:21) 
These men helped David against the marauders, for they were all very strong men and became commanders in David's army.

(1 Chronicles 12:22) 
And indeed, day by day, more men came to David, as if to offer help, until his army became very great—as numerous and formidable as the army of God Himself.

(1 Chronicles 12:23) 
This is the number of the commanders of the army who came to David in Hebron to transfer the kingdom from Saul to him, just as the Lord had promised.

(1 Chronicles 12:24) 
From the sons of Judah, bearing shield and spear, there were six thousand eight hundred men, ready for battle.

(1 Chronicles 12:25) 
From the sons of Simeon, seven thousand one hundred very strong men, ready for battle.

(1 Chronicles 12:26) 
From the sons of Levi, four thousand six hundred.

(1 Chronicles 12:27) 
And Jojada, a chief from the family of Aaron, and with him three thousand seven hundred men.

(1 Chronicles 12:28) 
And also Zadok, an excellent young man, came from the household of his father, bringing with him twenty-two commanders.

(1 Chronicles 12:29) 
And from the sons of Benjamin, who were Saul's kinsmen, three thousand men came. This was significant because many more of the Benjaminites were still loyal to Saul’s household.

(1 Chronicles 12:30) 
Furthermore, from the sons of Ephraim, there were twenty thousand eight hundred very strong men, each one distinguished by his reputation.

(1 Chronicles 12:31) 
And from the half-tribe of Manasseh, eighteen thousand men came, each one specifically named and recognized, to make David king.

(1 Chronicles 12:32) 
From the sons of Issachar, there were men who understood the times, so that they knew exactly what Israel ought to do. Their commanders were two hundred, and the rest of their tribe followed their command.

(1 Chronicles 12:33) 
Furthermore, from the tribe of Zebulun, there were fifty thousand men, ready to go out to battle and stand in formation, fully equipped with all military weapons. They helped David with sincere and undivided hearts.

(1 Chronicles 12:34) 
And from Naphtali, there were one thousand commanders, and with them thirty-seven thousand armed men ready for battle.

(1 Chronicles 12:35) 
And from Dan also, twenty-eight thousand six hundred men, ready for battle.

(1 Chronicles 12:36) 
And from Asher, forty thousand men who were going out to battle and prepared for war.

(1 Chronicles 12:37) 
From beyond the Jordan River, from the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, there were one hundred twenty thousand men, fully equipped with all the weapons of war.

(1 Chronicles 12:38) 
All these warriors, ready for battle and fighting in formation, came to Hebron with complete devotion to make David king over all Israel. Indeed, all the rest of Israel were of one accord and unanimous in their decision to make David king.

(1 Chronicles 12:39) 
They were there with David for three days, eating and drinking, for their brethren in the region had prepared an abundant feast for them.

(1 Chronicles 12:40) 
Moreover, even those who lived near them, reaching as far as the tribes of Issachar, Zebulun, and Naphtali, were bringing provisions on donkeys, camels, mules, and oxen for them to eat: an abundance of flour, figs, raisins, wine, oil, cattle, and sheep. For there was indeed great joy throughout Israel.

(1 Chronicles 13:1) 
Then David consulted with all the leaders of Israel: the commanders of thousands and the commanders of hundreds.

(1 Chronicles 13:2) 
He spoke to the entire assembly of Israel, saying: "If it pleases you, and if this plan is truly from the Lord our God, let us send messengers to the rest of our brothers throughout all the lands of Israel. Let us also send for the priests and Levites who live in the outlying settlements of the cities, so they may gather to us."

(1 Chronicles 13:3) 
"And let us bring the Ark of our God here to us, because during the days of Saul, we did not faithfully seek its presence."

(1 Chronicles 13:4) 
The entire multitude responded that this should be done, for the plan was pleasing to all the people.

(1 Chronicles 13:5) 
So David gathered all of Israel, from the Nile River in Egypt all the way to the entrance of Hamath, to bring the Ark of God from Kiriath-jearim.

(1 Chronicles 13:6) 
David and all Israel then went up to the city of Kiriath-jearim, which is in Judah, to bring from there the Ark of the Lord God—the one enthroned above the Cherubim, where His sacred Name had been invoked.

(1 Chronicles 13:7) 
They placed the Ark of God on a new cart, taken from Abinadab’s house. Uzzah and his brothers were driving this cart.

(1 Chronicles 13:8) 
David and all Israel were celebrating before God with all their might, with songs, lyres, harps, tambourines, cymbals, and trumpets.

(1 Chronicles 13:9) 
When they reached the threshing floor of Chidon, Uzzah extended his hand to steady the Ark, because the oxen had stumbled and nearly overturned it.

(1 Chronicles 13:10) 
The Lord became angry with Uzzah and struck him down because he had touched the Ark, and Uzzah died there before the Lord.

(1 Chronicles 13:11) 
David was deeply distressed that the Lord had broken out against Uzzah. So he named that place "The Striking of Uzzah"—a name it bears to this very day.

(1 Chronicles 13:12) 
David greatly feared God on that day, saying: "How can I possibly bring the Ark of God into my own dwelling?"

(1 Chronicles 13:13) 
For this reason, David did not bring the Ark of God into his own city. Instead, he diverted it to the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite.

(1 Chronicles 13:14) 
So the Ark of God remained in Obed-Edom’s house for three months, and the Lord blessed Obed-Edom's household and everything he owned.

(1 Chronicles 14:1) 
Hiram, the king of Tyre, sent messengers to David, along with cedar timber, and skilled masons for building walls, and skilled carpenters for working with wood, so they could build a palace for him.

(1 Chronicles 14:2) 
David then understood that the Lord had established him as king over all of Israel, and had raised his kingdom for the good of his people, Israel.

(1 Chronicles 14:3) 
David also took more wives in Jerusalem and fathered more sons and daughters.

(1 Chronicles 14:4) 
These are the names of the children born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon,

(1 Chronicles 14:5) 
Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet,

(1 Chronicles 14:6) 
Nogah, Nepheg, and Japhia,

(1 Chronicles 14:7) 
Elishama, Beeliada, and Eliphalet.

(1 Chronicles 14:8) 
When the Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over all of Israel, they all marched up to find him. When David heard of this, he went out to meet them.

(1 Chronicles 14:9) 
The Philistines came and spread out across the Valley of Rephaim.

(1 Chronicles 14:10) 
David asked the Lord, saying, "Should I go up against the Philistines? Will you deliver them into my hand?" The Lord said to him, "Go up, and I will deliver them into your hand."

(1 Chronicles 14:11) 
So David went up to Baal-perazim and defeated them there. David said, "God has broken through my enemies by my hand, like a bursting flood of water." Therefore, that place was named Baal-perazim, meaning 'Lord of Breakthroughs'.

(1 Chronicles 14:12) 
The Philistines left their idols there, and David had them burned with fire.

(1 Chronicles 14:13) 
However, the Philistines regrouped and spread out once more in the Valley of Rephaim.

(1 Chronicles 14:14) 
David again consulted the Lord. The Lord said to him, "Do not go up directly after them. Instead, circle around them and attack them from opposite the pear trees.

(1 Chronicles 14:15) 
When you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the pear trees, then go out to battle. For God will go out before you to strike down the army of the Philistines."

(1 Chronicles 14:16) 
So David did as God had commanded him, and they struck down the Philistine army from Gibeon all the way to Gezer.

(1 Chronicles 14:17) 
Thus, David's fame spread throughout all the regions, and the Lord caused dread of him to fall upon all nations.

(1 Chronicles 15:1) 
King David also built his royal residences in the city of David. He also prepared a specific place for the Ark of God, and set up a tent to house it there.

(1 Chronicles 15:2) 
Then David declared: 'Only the tribe of Levi is permitted to carry the Ark of God, for the Lord chose them specifically to carry it and to serve Him as priests for all time.'

(1 Chronicles 15:3) 
King David assembled all the people of Israel in Jerusalem so that the Ark of God could be brought to the dedicated place he had prepared for it.

(1 Chronicles 15:4) 
David also specifically gathered the priests and the Levites.

(1 Chronicles 15:5) 
From the descendants of Kohath, Uriel was the chief, along with 120 of his kinsmen.

(1 Chronicles 15:6) 
From the descendants of Merari, Asaiah was the chief, along with 220 of his kinsmen.

(1 Chronicles 15:7) 
From the descendants of Gershom, Joel was the chief, along with 130 of his kinsmen.

(1 Chronicles 15:8) 
From the descendants of Elizaphan, Shemaiah was the chief, along with 200 of his kinsmen.

(1 Chronicles 15:9) 
From the descendants of Hebron, Eliel was the chief, along with 80 of his kinsmen.

(1 Chronicles 15:10) 
From the descendants of Uzziel, Amminadab was the chief, along with 112 of his kinsmen.

(1 Chronicles 15:11) 
David then summoned the priests Zadok and Abiathar, along with the Levite chiefs Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab.

(1 Chronicles 15:12) 
He said to them: 'As the chiefs of the Levitical families, you must consecrate yourselves, along with your kinsmen. Then you are to bring the Ark of the Lord God of Israel to the place I have prepared for it.'

(1 Chronicles 15:13) 
'Our Lord God struck us down the first time we attempted to move the Ark, because you, the Levites, were not there to carry it as commanded from the beginning. It was not done according to the law.'

(1 Chronicles 15:14) 
So the priests and the Levites consecrated themselves, preparing to bring the Ark of the Lord God of Israel.

(1 Chronicles 15:15) 
And the sons of Levi carried the Ark of God, as Moses had specifically commanded according to the Lord's word, on their shoulders, using the carrying poles.

(1 Chronicles 15:16) 
Then David instructed the chiefs of the Levites to appoint singers from among their kinsmen to play musical instruments, specifically harps, lyres, and cymbals. This was so that the sound of rejoicing might echo loudly during the procession.

(1 Chronicles 15:17) 
So they appointed the Levite Heman, son of Joel; and from among his kinsmen, Asaph, son of Berechiah; and from the descendants of Merari, Ethan, son of Kushaiah.

(1 Chronicles 15:18) 
And with them were their kinsmen of the second rank: Zechariah, Ben, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-Edom, and Jeiel, who served as gatekeepers and aids in the procession.

(1 Chronicles 15:19) 
The main singers Heman, Asaph, and Ethan played loudly, clashing bronze cymbals.

(1 Chronicles 15:20) 
Meanwhile, Zechariah, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah, and Benaiah played on harps, specifically those tuned to 'Alamoth' – a high-pitched setting.

(1 Chronicles 15:21) 
And Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-Edom, Jeiel, and Azaziah led on lyres, playing 'for the octave' – likely referring to a lower pitch or bass accompaniment.

(1 Chronicles 15:22) 
Furthermore, Chenaniah, the chief of the Levites, was appointed to lead the chanting of the hymns, specifically the 'prophetic' or inspired songs, as he was highly skilled in this musical direction.

(1 Chronicles 15:23) 
Berechiah and Elkanah were appointed to serve as doorkeepers for the Ark's tent.

(1 Chronicles 15:24) 
Meanwhile, the priests Shebaniah, Jehoshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah, and Eliezer blew trumpets loudly before the Ark of God. Additionally, Obed-Edom and Jehiah served as doorkeepers for the Ark's tent.

(1 Chronicles 15:25) 
So King David, all the elders of Israel, and the military commanders went together to bring up the Ark of the Lord's Covenant from Obed-Edom's house with great joy.

(1 Chronicles 15:26) 
Because God had granted success to the Levites who carried the Ark of the Lord's Covenant, seven bulls and seven rams were sacrificed in thanksgiving and expiation.

(1 Chronicles 15:27) 
King David was clothed in a robe made of fine linen. All the Levites who carried the Ark, as well as the singers, and Chenaniah, the chief of the chanting, were similarly clothed. David himself also wore a special linen ephod, indicating his priestly role in this religious ceremony.

(1 Chronicles 15:28) 
And all of Israel brought up the Ark of the Lord's Covenant with shouts of joy, to the sound of horns, trumpets, cymbals, harps, and lyres.

(1 Chronicles 15:29) 
As the Ark of the Lord's Covenant reached the city of David, Michal, the daughter of Saul, looked out through a window. She saw King David dancing and celebrating with intense devotion and joy, and in her heart, she deeply despised him for it, considering it undignified for a king.

(1 Chronicles 15:30) 
Then they brought in the Ark of God and placed it in the center of the tent that David had pitched for it. In that place, they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings to God.

(1 Chronicles 15:31) 
When David finished offering the burnt offerings and peace offerings, he blessed the people of Israel in the name of the Lord.

(1 Chronicles 15:32) 
And David distributed food to everyone in the crowd, both men and women. Each person received a loaf of bread, a portion of roasted beef, and a rich, sweet cake made with oil. After this, all the people returned to their homes.

(1 Chronicles 15:33) 
Then David appointed specific Levites to minister continually before the Ark of the Lord, serving both day and night.

(1 Chronicles 15:34) 
Asaph was appointed as the chief minister, and Zechariah as his second. Additionally, Jehiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, and Obed-Edom served, with Jeiel being specifically in charge of the musical instruments like the psalteries and lyres.

(1 Chronicles 15:35) 
However, Asaph himself led with trumpets and cymbals, creating a powerful and harmonious sound.

(1 Chronicles 15:36) 
Obed-Edom and his sixty-eight kinsmen were assigned roles, including Obed-Edom, son of Jeduthun, and Hosah, who served as gatekeepers.

(1 Chronicles 15:37) 
Meanwhile, Zadok the priest, and his kinsmen the other priests, served before the Lord's tabernacle that remained on the high place at Gibeon.

(1 Chronicles 15:38) 
Their duty was to continually offer burnt offerings both morning and evening, in accordance with everything written in the Law of the Lord, which He had commanded to Israel.

(1 Chronicles 15:39) 
And with these priests at Gibeon were Heman and Jeduthun, along with the other chosen Levites who had been specifically appointed. Their role was to give thanks to the Lord, especially for His enduring mercy, which is eternal.

(1 Chronicles 15:40) 
In this service, Heman and Jeduthun played trumpets, cymbals, and all kinds of other musical instruments, glorifying God.

(1 Chronicles 16:1) 
Then they brought in the ark of God and placed it inside the tent that David had set up for it.
Then they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before God.

(1 Chronicles 16:2) 
After David had finished offering the burnt offerings and the peace offerings,
he blessed the people in the name of the Lord.

(1 Chronicles 16:3) 
And he distributed to everyone, from man to woman,
a loaf of bread, a portion of roasted beef, and flour cakes fried with oil.

(1 Chronicles 16:4) 
Then David appointed Levites before the ark of the Lord to minister there,
to commemorate the works of the Lord, to give thanks, and to praise the Lord God of Israel.

(1 Chronicles 16:5) 
Asaph was appointed as the chief, with Zechariah as his second.
Jeiel, Semiramoth, Jeiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-Edom, and Jeiel were put in charge of the psalteries and lyres.
Asaph himself was to sound the cymbals.

(1 Chronicles 16:6) 
And Benaiah and Jahaziel, the priests,
were to blow the trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of the Lord.

(1 Chronicles 16:7) 
On that day, David commanded that thanks be given to the Lord
through Asaph and his brethren.

(1 Chronicles 16:8) 
Give thanks to the Lord, and call upon His name.
Make His deeds known among the peoples.

(1 Chronicles 16:9) 
Sing to Him, and sing praises to Him.
Recount all His wondrous works.

(1 Chronicles 16:10) 
Glory in His holy name.
Let the hearts of those who seek the Lord rejoice.

(1 Chronicles 16:11) 
Seek the Lord and His strength.
Seek His presence continually.

(1 Chronicles 16:12) 
Remember His wondrous works that He has done,
remember His signs, and the judgments from His mouth.

(1 Chronicles 16:13) 
O seed of Israel, His servants;
you sons of Jacob, His chosen ones.

(1 Chronicles 16:14) 
He is the Lord our God.
His judgments are throughout the entire earth.

(1 Chronicles 16:15) 
Remember His covenant forever,
the word He commanded for a thousand generations.

(1 Chronicles 16:16) 
The covenant He established with Abraham,
and His oath to Isaac.

(1 Chronicles 16:17) 
And He confirmed it to Jacob as a decree,
and to Israel as an everlasting covenant.

(1 Chronicles 16:18) 
Saying: 'To you I will give the land of Canaan,
the measured portion of your inheritance.'

(1 Chronicles 16:19) 
When they were few in number, a small company,
and only sojourners in that land.

(1 Chronicles 16:20) 
And they wandered from nation to nation,
and from one kingdom to another people.

(1 Chronicles 16:21) 
He allowed no one to oppress them,
and for their sake, He rebuked kings.

(1 Chronicles 16:22) 
'Do not touch My anointed ones,
and do no harm to My prophets.'

(1 Chronicles 16:23) 
Sing to the Lord, all the earth.
Proclaim His salvation day after day.

(1 Chronicles 16:24) 
Declare His glory among the nations.
Recount His wondrous works among all peoples.

(1 Chronicles 16:25) 
For the Lord is great and greatly to be praised.
He is to be feared above all false gods.

(1 Chronicles 16:26) 
For all the gods of the nations are idols;
but the Lord Himself made the universe.

(1 Chronicles 16:27) 
Confession and majesty are before Him.
Strength and joy are in His dwelling place.

(1 Chronicles 16:28) 
Ascribe to the Lord, O families of the nations,
ascribe to the Lord glory and power.

(1 Chronicles 16:29) 
Ascribe to the Lord the glory due His name.
Bring offerings and come before Him.
Worship the Lord in His holy splendor.

(1 Chronicles 16:30) 
Let all the earth tremble before Him.
For He has established the world, so it cannot be moved from its purpose.

(1 Chronicles 16:31) 
Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth exult.
And let it be said among the nations: 'The Lord reigns!'

(1 Chronicles 16:32) 
Let the sea roar, and all that fills it.
Let the fields be joyful, and all things that are in them.

(1 Chronicles 16:33) 
Then all the trees of the forest will rejoice before the Lord.
For He comes to judge the earth.

(1 Chronicles 16:34) 
Give thanks to the Lord, for He is good.
For His mercy endures forever.

(1 Chronicles 16:35) 
And say: 'Save us, O God, our Savior!
Gather us and deliver us from the nations.
So that we may give thanks to Your holy name and exult in Your praise.'

(1 Chronicles 16:36) 
Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, from eternity to eternity.
And let all the people say, 'Amen,' and 'Praise the Lord!'

(1 Chronicles 16:37) 
So David left Asaph and his brethren there before the ark of the covenant of the Lord,
to minister continually before it, day by day.

(1 Chronicles 16:38) 
And Obed-Edom with his sixty-eight brethren,
and Obed-Edom the son of Jeduthun, and Hosah, were appointed as gatekeepers.

(1 Chronicles 16:39) 
But Zadok the priest, and his brethren, the priests,
were before the tabernacle of the Lord on the high place that was in Gibeon.

(1 Chronicles 16:40) 
So that they might offer burnt offerings to the Lord on the altar of burnt offering continually, morning and evening,
according to all that is written in the law of the Lord, which He commanded Israel.

(1 Chronicles 17:1) 
It came to pass that when David had settled into his own palace, he spoke to Nathan the prophet: 'Look, I am living in a house built with cedar wood, but the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord is still housed in tents.'

(1 Chronicles 17:2) 
And Nathan said to David: 'Do everything that is in your heart, for the Lord God is with you in this.'

(1 Chronicles 17:3) 
Then, in that very night, a word from the Lord God came to Nathan, saying:

(1 Chronicles 17:4) 
'Go and speak to David, my servant, and tell him: 'This is what the Lord God says: You are not the one who will build a house for me to dwell in.'

(1 Chronicles 17:5) 
For I have not lived in a house from the day I led Israel out of Egypt until this very day. Instead, I have always been moving around in a tent, even in another temporary dwelling.

(1 Chronicles 17:6) 
Wherever I traveled with all of Israel, did I ever speak a word to any of the judges of Israel—those I commanded to shepherd My people—and say, 'Why have you not built me a house of cedar?'

(1 Chronicles 17:7) 
Now therefore, you shall say this to my servant David: 'This is what the Lord of hosts says: I took you from the pastures, from following the flocks, to be ruler over my people Israel.

(1 Chronicles 17:8) 
I have been with you wherever you went, and I have cut off all your enemies from before you. I have made for you a great name, like the names of the most powerful people on the earth.

(1 Chronicles 17:9) 
Moreover, I have appointed a place for My people Israel, and I have planted them there. They will dwell in their own place and no longer be disturbed. Nor shall wicked people oppress them as they did at the beginning,

(1 Chronicles 17:10) 
...and as they did from the days when I appointed judges over My people Israel. I will humble all your enemies. Furthermore, I declare to you that the Lord God Himself will build you a house —a lasting dynasty.

(1 Chronicles 17:11) 
And when your days are fulfilled, and you go to be with your fathers in death, I will raise up your offspring after you, who will be one of your own sons, and I will establish his kingdom firmly.

(1 Chronicles 17:12) 
He it is who will build a house for My name—My Temple—and I will establish his throne forever.

(1 Chronicles 17:13) 
I will be a father to him, and he will be a son to Me. I will not take away My mercy from him, as I took it away from the one who was before you.

(1 Chronicles 17:14) 
But I will establish him in My house—My dynasty and My Temple—and in My kingdom forever, and his throne will be most firm and enduring perpetually.

(1 Chronicles 17:15) 
According to all these words and according to this entire vision, so Nathan spoke to David.

(1 Chronicles 17:16) 
Then King David went in and sat before the Lord God, and he said: 'Who am I, O Lord God, and what is my house—my family and dynasty—that you have brought me to such great honor?

(1 Chronicles 17:17) 
Yet even this seemed a small thing in Your eyes, O God, for You have spoken concerning the house of Your servant far into the future. You have looked upon me as a man of high standing and have exalted me greatly.

(1 Chronicles 17:18) 
What more can David say to You, after You have so honored Your servant, and after You have intimately known him and his heart?

(1 Chronicles 17:19) 
O Lord, for Your servant's sake, and according to Your own heart's purpose, You have done all these great deeds and have revealed all these things.

(1 Chronicles 17:20) 
O Lord, there is no one like You, and there is no God besides You, according to all that we have heard with our own ears.

(1 Chronicles 17:21) 
And what other nation on earth is like Your people Israel, whom You went forth to redeem for Yourself, to make for Yourself a great and awe-inspiring name, and to cast out nations from before them?

(1 Chronicles 17:22) 
And You have established Your people Israel as Your own people forever, and You, O Lord God, have become their God.

(1 Chronicles 17:23) 
Now therefore, O Lord, let the word that You have spoken concerning Your servant and concerning his house be established forever, and do as You have promised.

(1 Chronicles 17:24) 
Let it also remain, and let Your name be magnified forever, so that people will say, 'The Lord of hosts is truly the God of Israel!' And let the house of David Your servant remain established before You.

(1 Chronicles 17:25) 
For You, O Lord my God, have revealed to Your servant's hearing that You intend to build him a lasting dynasty. Therefore, Your servant has found the confidence to pray before You.

(1 Chronicles 17:26) 
Now, O Lord, You are God, and You have spoken such great and gracious promises to Your servant.

(1 Chronicles 17:27) 
And now, please begin to confirm Your blessing upon the house of Your servant forever, for You, O Lord, have indeed blessed it, and therefore it shall be blessed perpetually.

(1 Chronicles 18:1) 
After these events, David struck down the Philistines and subdued them. He took Gath, along with its dependent towns, from the Philistines.

(1 Chronicles 18:2) 
And he struck down Moab, and the Moabites became David's servants, offering him tribute.

(1 Chronicles 18:3) 
Also at this time, David struck down Hadadezer, king of Zobah (a region near Hamath), when Hadadezer was marching to extend his dominion as far as the Euphrates River.

(1 Chronicles 18:4) 
So David captured from Hadadezer one thousand chariots, seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand foot soldiers. He then disabled all the horses of the chariots by cutting their hamstrings, except for the horses of one hundred chariots, which he kept for himself.

(1 Chronicles 18:5) 
When the Syrians from Damascus came to assist Hadadezer, king of Zobah, David struck down twenty-two thousand of these Syrian soldiers.

(1 Chronicles 18:6) 
David then stationed garrisons in Damascus in Syria, and the Syrians became David's servants and brought him tribute. And the Lord helped David in everything he did.

(1 Chronicles 18:7) 
David also took the golden shields that Hadadezer's officers had carried and brought them to Jerusalem.

(1 Chronicles 18:8) 
From Tibhath and Cun, cities belonging to Hadadezer, David took a large quantity of bronze, from which Solomon later made the bronze sea (a large basin for the Temple), pillars, and bronze bases.

(1 Chronicles 18:9) 
When Tou, king of Hamath, heard that David had struck down the entire army of Hadadezer, king of Zobah,

(1 Chronicles 18:10) 
he sent his son Hadoram to King David to greet him and congratulate him because David had fought Hadadezer and struck him down (for Hadadezer had been at war with Tou). Hadoram also brought all sorts of vessels made of gold, silver, and bronze.

(1 Chronicles 18:11) 
King David immediately consecrated these to the Lord, along with the silver and gold he had taken from all the nations he had conquered: from Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines, and Amalek.

(1 Chronicles 18:12) 
Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, also struck down eighteen thousand Edomites in the Valley of Salt.

(1 Chronicles 18:13) 
He then placed garrisons in Edom, so that Edom would be subject to David. And the Lord brought victory to David in everything he undertook.

(1 Chronicles 18:14) 
So David reigned over all of Israel, administering justice and righteousness to all his people.

(1 Chronicles 18:15) 
Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was commander of the army, and Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, was the royal recorder (keeper of official records).

(1 Chronicles 18:16) 
Zadok, the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech, the son of Abiathar, were priests. Shavsha (also called Shisha or Seraiah) was the secretary.

(1 Chronicles 18:17) 
Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites (David's elite guard). And David's sons were the king's chief officials.

(1 Chronicles 19:1) 
Now, after these events, Nahash, who was the king of the Ammonites, died, and his son succeeded him as king.

(1 Chronicles 19:2) 
Then King David said: 'I will show kindness to Hanun, the son of Nahash, because his father showed kindness to me.' So David sent messengers to comfort Hanun over the death of his father. When these messengers arrived in the land of the Ammonites to comfort Hanun,

(1 Chronicles 19:3) 
the princes of the Ammonites said to Hanun: 'Do you truly believe that David has sent these men to comfort you out of respect for your father's memory? Is it not rather that he sent them to spy out your entire land, to explore it, and then to overthrow it?'

(1 Chronicles 19:4) 
So Hanun took David's servants, publicly humiliated them by shaving off half of each man’s beard, and cutting their garments in half up to their buttocks. Then he sent them away.

(1 Chronicles 19:5) 
When these men returned and reported everything that had happened to David, he sent people to meet them—for they were deeply disgraced and ashamed. David commanded them: 'Remain in Jericho until your beards have grown back, and then you may return.'

(1 Chronicles 19:6) 
When the Ammonites saw that they had made themselves offensive to David, Hanun and his officials sent sixty thousand talents of silver to hire chariots and horsemen from Mesopotamia, from Aram-Maacah, and from Zobah.

(1 Chronicles 19:7) 
So they hired thirty-two thousand chariots and their warriors, along with the king of Maacah and his people. When these allies arrived, they encamped facing Medeba. Meanwhile, the Ammonites gathered their own forces from their cities and came out to battle.

(1 Chronicles 19:8) 
When David heard about this, he immediately sent Joab and his entire army of mighty warriors.

(1 Chronicles 19:9) 
The Ammonites marched out and drew up their battle line by the city gate. The allied kings who had come to assist them took a separate position in the open field.

(1 Chronicles 19:10) 
Joab, seeing that the battle was arrayed against him both in front and behind, selected the strongest men from all of Israel and positioned them against the Arameans, or Syrians, as they were also known.

(1 Chronicles 19:11) 
He placed the rest of the Israelite people under the command of his brother Abishai, who arrayed them against the Ammonites.

(1 Chronicles 19:12) 
Joab said to Abishai: 'If the Arameans prove too strong for me, then you must come to my aid. But if the Ammonites are too strong for you, then I will come and help you.'

(1 Chronicles 19:13) 
'Be strong! Let us fight courageously for our people and for the cities of our God. May the Lord do what is good in His sight.'

(1 Chronicles 19:14) 
So Joab and the people who were with him advanced to fight against the Arameans, who immediately fled before them.

(1 Chronicles 19:15) 
When the Ammonites saw that the Arameans had fled, they themselves also fled from Abishai, Joab's brother, and retreated into their city. Then Joab returned to Jerusalem.

(1 Chronicles 19:16) 
When the Arameans saw that they had been defeated before Israel, they sent messengers and brought out the Arameans who were beyond the Euphrates River. Shobach, the commander of Hadadezer’s army, was leading them.

(1 Chronicles 19:17) 
When this was reported to David, he gathered all Israel, crossed the Jordan River, and advanced against them. He drew up his battle line against them. When David entered the battle against the Arameans, they fought against him.

(1 Chronicles 19:18) 
The Arameans fled before Israel. David killed seven thousand of their charioteers and forty thousand of their foot soldiers, and he also killed Shobach, their army commander.

(1 Chronicles 19:19) 
When Hadadezer's servants saw that they had been defeated by Israel, they made a treaty with David and submitted to him. After this, the Arameans were no longer willing to help the Ammonites.

(1 Chronicles 20:1) 
Now, it happened after a year had passed, at the time when kings usually go out to wage war, Joab led out the army and devastated the land of the sons of Ammon. Then he came and besieged Rabbah. But David remained in Jerusalem, while Joab attacked Rabbah and utterly destroyed it.

(1 Chronicles 20:2) 
So David took the crown of Milcom from the Ammonite king's head. He found in it a weight of a single talent of gold, along with very precious stones. David then made a diadem for himself from it, and he carried away much spoil from the city.

(1 Chronicles 20:3) 
He also brought out the people who were in the city, and he put them to forced labor with threshing sledges, iron wagons, and iron saws, and with various smaller iron tools used for cutting down trees. Thus David did to all the cities of the sons of Ammon. And David returned with all the army to Jerusalem.

(1 Chronicles 20:4) 
After these things, a war happened in Gezer against the Philistines. Then Sibbechai the Hushathite struck down Sippai, who was one of the descendants of the Rephaim, and the Philistines were humbled in defeat.

(1 Chronicles 20:5) 
There was also another war against the Philistines, in which Eldadan, the son of the Forest, struck down Goliath's brother, the Gittite. The shaft of Goliath's brother's spear was like a weaver's beam.

(1 Chronicles 20:6) 
There was also another war in Gath, in which there was a man of great stature. He had six fingers on each hand, making twenty-four fingers in total. And this man also was a descendant of the Rephaim.

(1 Chronicles 20:7) 
This man blasphemed Israel. But Jonathan, the son of Shimei, David's brother, struck him down.

(1 Chronicles 20:8) 
These were among the descendants of the Rephaim in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and his servants.

(1 Chronicles 21:1) 
But Satan, the spiritual enemy of God and His people, rose up against Israel, and he provoked King David to count the people of Israel.

(1 Chronicles 21:2) 
And King David said to Joab, the commander of his army, and to the other leaders of the people: 'Go, count all the men of Israel, from Beer-sheba in the south to Dan in the north, and bring the count back to me, so that I may know the total number.'

(1 Chronicles 21:3) 
But Joab answered: 'May the Lord increase His people a hundred times over what they are now! My lord the king, are they not all your servants? Why does my lord seek to do this, which will be counted as a sin against Israel?'

(1 Chronicles 21:4) 
However, the king's command prevailed and was more powerful than Joab's objection. So Joab went out and travelled throughout Israel, taking a census, and then returned to Jerusalem.

(1 Chronicles 21:5) 
Therefore, Joab gave to David the total number of the men he had counted. The total number found in all of Israel was one million one hundred thousand men who could draw the sword; and in the tribe of Judah alone there were four hundred seventy thousand fighting men.

(1 Chronicles 21:6) 
But Joab did not count the tribes of Levi and Benjamin, because Joab considered the king's order to be an abomination and an error.

(1 Chronicles 21:7) 
And this matter, this counting of the people by David, was displeasing to God, and because of it, God struck down the people of Israel with a plague.

(1 Chronicles 21:8) 
And David said to God: 'I have sinned grievously by doing this. I beg you, take away the guilt of your servant, because I have acted very foolishly.'

(1 Chronicles 21:9) 
And the Lord spoke to Gad, who was David's prophet and seer, saying:

(1 Chronicles 21:10) 
'Go and speak to David, saying: "Thus says the Lord: 'I offer you three choices. Choose one of them that you desire, and I will do it to you.'"'

(1 Chronicles 21:11) 
When Gad came to King David, he said to him: 'Thus says the Lord: "Choose what you desire from these options:"'

(1 Chronicles 21:12) 
'Either three years of famine; or for three months you flee from your enemies, and the sword of your adversaries cannot be escaped; or for three days, the sword of the Lord, and a plague to spread throughout the land, and the angel of the Lord to kill throughout all the borders of Israel. Therefore, now consider what answer you will give to Him who sent me.'

(1 Chronicles 21:13) 
And David said to Gad: 'I am in very great distress and confined by these choices. But it is better that I fall into the hands of the Lord, because His mercies are many, rather than fall into the hands of men.'

(1 Chronicles 21:14) 
Therefore, the Lord sent a plague upon Israel, and seventy thousand men of Israel died.

(1 Chronicles 21:15) 
And God sent an angel to Jerusalem to strike it. And as it was being struck, the Lord saw, and He had compassion on the multitude of people, and He commanded the angel who was striking them: 'It is enough now; stop your hand.' Indeed, the angel of the Lord was standing by the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.

(1 Chronicles 21:16) 
And David, lifting his eyes, saw the angel of the Lord standing between the earth and the sky, with his drawn sword in his hand stretched out over Jerusalem. And both David himself and the elders, clothed in sackcloth, fell on their faces to the ground.

(1 Chronicles 21:17) 
And David said to God: 'Was it not I who commanded the people to be counted? I am the one who sinned; I am the one who did wrong! These flocks, what have they committed? O Lord, my God, I beg you, let your hand be turned against me and against the house of my father, but let there be no plague upon Your people.'

(1 Chronicles 21:18) 
Then the angel of the Lord commanded Gad to tell King David that David should go up and build an altar to the Lord on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.

(1 Chronicles 21:19) 
So King David went up according to the word of Gad, which he had spoken in the name of the Lord.

(1 Chronicles 21:20) 
Now Ornan, when he turned and looked around, saw the angel; and his four sons who were with him hid themselves in fear. Ornan himself was threshing wheat at the time.

(1 Chronicles 21:21) 
And when King David came to Ornan, Ornan looked up and, leaping from the threshing floor, he bowed down to David, prostrate on the ground.

(1 Chronicles 21:22) 
And David said to Ornan: 'Give me the place of your threshing floor, so that I may build an altar to the Lord there. You must sell it to me at its just price, so that the plague may cease from the people.'

(1 Chronicles 21:23) 
And Ornan said to David: 'Take it, and let my lord the king do what pleases him. See, I also give the oxen for a burnt offering, and the threshing sledges for wood, and the wheat for the grain offering. I offer everything willingly.'

(1 Chronicles 21:24) 
But King David said to Ornan: 'No, not at all; I will surely buy it from you for a price. For I ought not to offer a burnt offering to the Lord my God that costs me nothing. Therefore, I will buy it from you for a price, and I will complete the sacrifice.'

(1 Chronicles 21:25) 
So David gave Ornan six hundred shekels of pure gold by weight.

(1 Chronicles 21:26) 
And David built an altar to the Lord there and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. He called upon the Lord, and the Lord answered him by sending fire from the sky upon the altar of burnt offering.

(1 Chronicles 21:27) 
Then the Lord commanded the angel, and the angel put his sword back into its sheath.

(1 Chronicles 21:28) 
Therefore, when David saw that the Lord had answered him on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite, he offered sacrifices there.

(1 Chronicles 21:29) 
Now the Tabernacle of the Lord, which Moses had made in the wilderness, and the altar of burnt offering, were at that time on the high place at Gibeon.

(1 Chronicles 21:30) 
But David was not able to go there to worship God, because he was terrified by extreme fear, terrified by the sight of the sword of the angel of the Lord.

(1 Chronicles 22:1) 
Then David designated the location for the Temple of the Lord, and for the altar where burnt offerings would be made.

(1 Chronicles 22:2) 
He then ordered all the foreigners living in the land of Israel to be gathered together. From among them, he appointed stonecutters to cut and square stones for the building of God's Temple.

(1 Chronicles 22:3) 
David also prepared a great quantity of iron for the nails, for joining the timbers, and for all the construction work; and an immense amount of bronze, so much that it could not even be weighed.

(1 Chronicles 22:4) 
He also prepared a countless number of cedar logs, because the people of Sidon and Tyre had brought many cedar timbers to David.

(1 Chronicles 22:5) 
And David said: "My son Solomon is still young and inexperienced, and the Temple that is to be built for the Lord must be so magnificent that it will be famous throughout all the lands. Therefore, I will prepare everything he needs for it." So, for this reason, David prepared everything before his death.

(1 Chronicles 22:6) 
Then he called his son Solomon and commanded him to build a house for the Lord, the God of Israel.

(1 Chronicles 22:7) 
And David said to Solomon: "My son, it was my heartfelt desire to build a house for the Name of the Lord, my God."

(1 Chronicles 22:8) 
"But the word of the Lord came to me, saying: 'You have shed much blood and fought many wars; therefore, you cannot build a house for My Name, because of the great amount of blood you have shed on the earth before Me.'"

(1 Chronicles 22:9) 
"'For a son will indeed be born to you who will be a man of rest, and I will give him peace from all his enemies on every side. His name will be called Solomon, which means peace, and I will grant peace and tranquility to Israel all his days.'"

(1 Chronicles 22:10) 
"'He is the one who will build a house for My Name, and he will be My son, and I will be his Father. And I will establish his throne over Israel forever.'"

(1 Chronicles 22:11) 
"Now therefore, my son, may the Lord be with you, and may you prosper as you build the house for the Lord your God, just as He spoke concerning you."

(1 Chronicles 22:12) 
"May the Lord also grant you wisdom and understanding, so that you may be able to govern Israel and keep the law of the Lord your God."

(1 Chronicles 22:13) 
"For then you will be able to direct your ways successfully if you observe the commands and judgments which the Lord commanded Moses for Israel. Be strong and act courageously; do not be afraid, and do not be dismayed by anything."

(1 Chronicles 22:14) 
"Indeed, in my humble efforts, I have prepared for the expenses of the Lord's house: one hundred thousand talents of gold, and one million talents of silver. As for bronze and iron, there is no weight that can be measured, for there was so much that it exceeded all counting."

(1 Chronicles 22:15) 
"Moreover, you have a great number of skilled workers: masons, and stonecutters, carpenters, and craftsmen for every kind of art and skill."

(1 Chronicles 22:16) 
"There is no end to the gold, silver, bronze, and iron. So rise up and begin the work, and the Lord will be with you."

(1 Chronicles 22:17) 
David also commanded all the leaders of Israel to assist his son Solomon, saying:

(1 Chronicles 22:18) 
"Behold, the Lord your God is with you. He has granted you rest on every side, and He has handed all your enemies into your hands, so the land is subdued before the Lord and before His people."

(1 Chronicles 22:19) 
"Therefore, dedicate your hearts and your souls to seek the Lord your God. Rise up and build the sanctuary for the Lord God, so that the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord and the holy vessels of God's sanctuary may be brought into the house that is being built for the Name of the Lord."

(1 Chronicles 23:1) 
Therefore, when David was old and had lived many years, he appointed his son Solomon to be king over Israel.

(1 Chronicles 23:2) 
He gathered all the princes of Israel, as well as the priests and the Levites.

(1 Chronicles 23:3) 
Therefore, the Levites were counted—those who were thirty years of age and older—and a total of thirty-eight thousand men were found.

(1 Chronicles 23:4) 
From these men, twenty-four thousand were assigned to oversee the work of the Lord's Temple and to serve in its duties.

(1 Chronicles 23:5) 
Furthermore, six thousand were appointed as scribes and judges.

(1 Chronicles 23:6) 
And four thousand were gatekeepers, and another four thousand were singers, chanting praises to the Lord with the musical instruments that David had made for singing.

(1 Chronicles 23:7) 
These are the sons of Levi according to their family lines: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

(1 Chronicles 23:8) 
The sons of Gershon were Ladan and Shimei.

(1 Chronicles 23:9) 
The sons of Ladan were Jechiel the chief, and Zetham, and Joel—three in total.

(1 Chronicles 23:10) 
The sons of Shimei were Jahath, Zina, Jeush, and Beriah—these were the four sons of Shimei.

(1 Chronicles 23:11) 
Now Jahath was the firstborn, and Ziza was the second. But Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons, and for that reason, they were counted as one family and one household.

(1 Chronicles 23:12) 
The sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel—four in total.

(1 Chronicles 23:13) 
The sons of Amram were Aaron and Moses. And Aaron was set apart, he and his sons forever, to minister in the Holy of Holies, to burn incense before the Lord, to serve Him, and to bless His name perpetually.

(1 Chronicles 23:14) 
Moreover, the sons of Moses, the man of God, were also counted among the tribe of Levi.

(1 Chronicles 23:15) 
The sons of Moses were Gershon and Eliezer.

(1 Chronicles 23:16) 
The son of Gershon was Shebuel, the firstborn.

(1 Chronicles 23:17) 
The son of Eliezer was Rehabiah, the firstborn. Eliezer had no other sons besides him. But the sons of Rehabiah multiplied greatly.

(1 Chronicles 23:18) 
The sons of Izhar were Shelomith, the firstborn.

(1 Chronicles 23:19) 
The sons of Hebron were Jeriah, the firstborn; Amariah, the second; Jahaziel, the third; and Jekameam, the fourth.

(1 Chronicles 23:20) 
The sons of Uzziel were Micah, the firstborn; and Jesiah, the second.

(1 Chronicles 23:21) 
The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli were Eleazar and Kish.

(1 Chronicles 23:22) 
Now Eleazar died, and he had no sons, only daughters. Therefore, the sons of Kish, their cousins, married them.

(1 Chronicles 23:23) 
The sons of Mushi were Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth—three in total.

(1 Chronicles 23:24) 
These are the sons of Levi in their clans and families, the heads of the families according to their divisions, and the count of the names of each individual, who performed the work of the service of the Lord's house, starting from twenty years of age and older.

(1 Chronicles 23:25) 
For David had declared: “The Lord God of Israel has given rest to His people, and His dwelling place is in Jerusalem forever.”

(1 Chronicles 23:26) 
Therefore, it would no longer be necessary for the Levites to carry the tabernacle and all its vessels—which were the instruments of their service.

(1 Chronicles 23:27) 
For according to David’s most recent count, the sons of Levi were those aged twenty years and older.

(1 Chronicles 23:28) 
And they are to stand under the authority of the sons of Aaron for the service of the Lord’s house, in the courtyards, and in the chambers, and in the upper rooms, and in the inner sanctuaries, and at the mercy seat, and with all the vessels for the service of the Lord’s Temple.

(1 Chronicles 23:29) 
They are also responsible for the showbread, and the fine flour for the sacrifice, and the unleavened cakes, and that which is baked in the pan, and that which is fried, and for every weight and measure.

(1 Chronicles 23:30) 
And they are to stand every morning to praise and give thanks to the Lord, and likewise in the evening.

(1 Chronicles 23:31) 
They are to assist with the offering of the Lord’s burnt offerings, as well as on the Sabbaths, and at the new moons, and at all other solemn feast days, according to the prescribed number and ceremonies for each, always before the Lord.

(1 Chronicles 23:32) 
And they are to guard the watch of the tabernacle of testimony, and the watch of the sanctuary, and the watch of their brethren, the sons of Aaron, so that they may serve in the houses of the Lord.

(1 Chronicles 23:33) 
These are the sons of Kohath by their families: the chiefs of the families of Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.

(1 Chronicles 23:34) 
The sons of Merari by their families were the chiefs of the families of Mahli and Mushi. And these are the sons of Levi by their families.

(1 Chronicles 23:35) 
And Eleazar was the chief priest, and Kish was also a chief.

(1 Chronicles 23:36) 
Eleazar was the high priest, and his sons held the priesthood after him. And his son became high priest in his place. And these were the sons of Kohath by their families.

(1 Chronicles 23:37) 
The sons of Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.

(1 Chronicles 23:38) 
The sons of Gershon were Ladan and Shimei.

(1 Chronicles 23:39) 
The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi.

(1 Chronicles 23:40) 
All the Levites, by their families and by their fathers' households, according to their divisions and their total number, from thirty years of age and older, up to fifty years of age, were serving in the houses of the Lord, performing all the labor of the ministers' work, and the service of the tabernacle of testimony.

(1 Chronicles 24:1) 
Now, these were the assigned divisions for the sons of Aaron. The original sons of Aaron were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

(1 Chronicles 24:2) 
However, Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and they had no children. So, Eleazar and Ithamar were the ones who carried out the duties of the priesthood.

(1 Chronicles 24:3) 
King David, along with Zadok from the lineage of Eleazar, and Ahimelech from the lineage of Ithamar, then organized these priestly families. He established their specific courses of service and their particular duties within the ministry.

(1 Chronicles 24:4) 
It was discovered that the descendants of Eleazar had many more leading men than the descendants of Ithamar. Therefore, King David assigned sixteen family heads from the sons of Eleazar and eight family heads from the sons of Ithamar, according to their respective family lines.

(1 Chronicles 24:5) 
David then organized their courses of service by lot, treating both groups equally. However, more leading men and mighty warriors were found among the descendants of Eleazar, so their courses were more numerous.

(1 Chronicles 24:6) 
Shemaiah, son of Nethaneel, a Levite scribe, recorded them in the presence of the king, the princes, Zadok the priest, Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, and the heads of the priestly and Levite families. He recorded one leading family line from Eleazar, and another leading family line from Ithamar.

(1 Chronicles 24:7) 
The first lot drawn was for Jehoiarib, the second for Jedaiah.

(1 Chronicles 24:8) 
The third was for Harim, the fourth for Seorim.

(1 Chronicles 24:9) 
The fifth was for Malchijah, the sixth for Mijamin.

(1 Chronicles 24:10) 
The seventh was for Hakkoz, the eighth for Abijah.

(1 Chronicles 24:11) 
The ninth was for Jeshua, the tenth for Shecaniah.

(1 Chronicles 24:12) 
The eleventh was for Eliashib, the twelfth for Jakim.

(1 Chronicles 24:13) 
The thirteenth was for Huppah, the fourteenth for Jeshebeab.

(1 Chronicles 24:14) 
The fifteenth was for Bilgah, the sixteenth for Immer.

(1 Chronicles 24:15) 
The seventeenth was for Hezir, the eighteenth for Happizzez.

(1 Chronicles 24:16) 
The nineteenth was for Pethahiah, the twentieth for Jehezkel.

(1 Chronicles 24:17) 
The twenty-first was for Jachin, the twenty-second for Gamul.

(1 Chronicles 24:18) 
The twenty-third was for Delaiah, the twenty-fourth for Maaziah.

(1 Chronicles 24:19) 
These were their ordered courses of service when they went into the House of the Lord. They followed the directions of Aaron their father, just as the Lord God of Israel had commanded him.

(1 Chronicles 24:20) 
Now, concerning the remaining descendants of Levi: from the sons of Amram, there was Shubael. From the sons of Shubael, there was Jehdeiah.

(1 Chronicles 24:21) 
From the sons of Rehabiah, Isshiah was the chief.

(1 Chronicles 24:22) 
From the Izharites, there was Shelomith. From the sons of Shelomith, there was Jahath.

(1 Chronicles 24:23) 
His son was Amram, and Izhar, and Jehath, and Beriah. And the sons of Uzziel were Micah, and the sons of Micah were Shamir.

(1 Chronicles 24:24) 
Micah's brother was Isshiah. And the sons of Isshiah were Zechariah.

(1 Chronicles 24:25) 
The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Jaaziah were Beno.

(1 Chronicles 24:26) 
The other sons of Merari were Jaaziah, Shoham, Zaccur, and Ibri.

(1 Chronicles 24:27) 
The sons of Mahli were Eleazar, who had no sons.

(1 Chronicles 24:28) 
And the sons of Kish were Jerahmeel.

(1 Chronicles 24:29) 
The sons of Mushi were Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of Levi according to their family lines.

(1 Chronicles 24:30) 
King David, along with Zadok, Ahimelech the chief priest, and the heads of the Levite families, appointed these individuals for their courses of service. They were designated to minister in the House of the Lord.

(1 Chronicles 24:31) 
They also cast lots for their courses of service, just as their brothers, the sons of Aaron, had done. This was done in the presence of King David, Zadok, Ahimelech, and the heads of the priestly and Levite families. Both relatives and non-relatives were assigned their duties by lot, ensuring an equal and impartial distribution of roles.

(1 Chronicles 25:1) 
So David and the commanders of the army set apart the sons of Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun for a sacred service. These were to proclaim God's message using harps, lyres, and cymbals, according to the total number appointed.

(1 Chronicles 25:2) 
From the sons of Asaph were Zaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah, and Asharelah. These were under the direction of Asaph, who was proclaiming God's message according to the king's command.

(1 Chronicles 25:3) 
For Jeduthun, there were six sons: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Hashabiah, Mattithiah, and Shemei. They were all under the direction of their father Jeduthun, who proclaimed God's message with the harp, in giving thanks and praises to the Lord.

(1 Chronicles 25:4) 
From Heman were Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, Romamti-ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Mahazioth.

(1 Chronicles 25:5) 
All these were the sons of Heman, who, as royal officials for God's message, were to lift up the horn of triumph in their service. God gave Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.

(1 Chronicles 25:6) 
All these musicians were under the direction of their fathers for singing in the Temple of the Lord, using cymbals, lyres, and harps. This was all for the sacred service of the Lord's house, according to the king's command, set by Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman.

(1 Chronicles 25:7) 
The total number of these musicians, along with their kinsmen who were being trained and who sang to the Lord, all of them skilled and understanding in their craft, was two hundred and eighty-eight.

(1 Chronicles 25:8) 
They also cast lots to determine their divisions of service, involving both the younger and the older members, and including both the skilled and those still in training.

(1 Chronicles 25:9) 
The first lot fell to Joseph, of the lineage of Asaph. The second lot went to Gedaliah, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve in his division.

(1 Chronicles 25:10) 
The third lot went to Zaccur, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:11) 
The fourth lot went to Zeri, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:12) 
The fifth lot went to Nethaniah, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:13) 
The sixth lot went to Bukkiah, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:14) 
The seventh lot went to Jeshaiah, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:15) 
The eighth lot went to Isaiah, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:16) 
The ninth lot went to Mattaniah, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:17) 
The tenth lot went to Shemei, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:18) 
The eleventh lot went to Asharelah, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:19) 
The twelfth lot went to Hashabiah, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:20) 
The thirteenth lot went to Shebuel, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:21) 
The fourteenth lot went to Mattithiah, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:22) 
The fifteenth lot went to Jerimoth, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:23) 
The sixteenth lot went to Hananiah, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:24) 
The seventeenth lot went to Joshbekashah, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:25) 
The eighteenth lot went to Hanani, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:26) 
The nineteenth lot went to Mallothi, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:27) 
The twentieth lot went to Eliathah, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:28) 
The twenty-first lot went to Hothir, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:29) 
The twenty-second lot went to Giddalti, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:30) 
The twenty-third lot went to Mahazioth, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 25:31) 
The twenty-fourth lot went to Romamti-ezer, who, along with his sons and kinsmen, numbered twelve.

(1 Chronicles 26:1) 
So then, these were the appointed divisions of the gatekeepers: From the Korahites was Meshelemiah, the son of Kore, one of the sons of Asaph.

(1 Chronicles 26:2) 
Meshelemiah had sons: Zachariah, the firstborn; Jediael, the second; Zebadiah, the third; Jathanael, the fourth;

(1 Chronicles 26:3) 
Elam, the fifth; Johanan, the sixth; and Elioenai, the seventh.

(1 Chronicles 26:4) 
The sons of Obed-Edom were Shemaiah, the firstborn; Jehozabad, the second; Joah, the third; Sacar, the fourth; Nathanael, the fifth;

(1 Chronicles 26:5) 
Ammiel, the sixth; Issachar, the seventh; and Peulthai, the eighth. All these were because the Lord had blessed him.

(1 Chronicles 26:6) 
To his son Shemaiah, other sons were born who became heads of their families, because they were very strong men.

(1 Chronicles 26:7) 
Therefore, the sons of Shemaiah were Othni, Raphaël, Obed, and Elzabad. His brothers, who were also very strong men, were Elihu and Semachiah.

(1 Chronicles 26:8) 
All these men were from the sons of Obed-Edom—they, their sons, and their brothers—all very strong and capable for service. There were sixty-two descendants from Obed-Edom.

(1 Chronicles 26:9) 
Moreover, Meshelemiah's sons and their brothers were also very strong men, eighteen in total.

(1 Chronicles 26:10) 
From Hosah, who was from the sons of Merari, were these sons: Shimri, the chief, whom his father had appointed as chief because he had no firstborn son;

(1 Chronicles 26:11) 
Hilkiah, the second; Tebaliah, the third; and Zechariah, the fourth. All these, including Hosah's sons and brothers, numbered thirteen.

(1 Chronicles 26:12) 
These were the divisions of the gatekeepers: these leading men had their duties to minister to their brethren.

(1 Chronicles 26:13) 
They cast lots, fairly and equally, among the small and the great among their families, for each gate.

(1 Chronicles 26:14) 
So the eastern lot fell to Shelemiah. Then for his son Zechariah (who was a very prudent counselor), they also cast lots, and his lot fell to the north.

(1 Chronicles 26:15) 
Obed-Edom received the southern lot; and for his sons, the house of Asaph.

(1 Chronicles 26:16) 
Hosah received the western lot, by the assigned turn of the lot, for the road leading up the ascent, and for the Shallecheth Gate.

(1 Chronicles 26:17) 
To the east, there were six Levites; to the north, four each day; to the south, likewise four each day; and at the storehouse where the treasures were kept, two by two.

(1 Chronicles 26:18) 
Also at Parbar, to the west, there were four on the highway and two at Parbar itself.

(1 Chronicles 26:19) 
These were the divisions of the gatekeepers from the sons of Korah and Merari.

(1 Chronicles 26:20) 
Moreover, among the Levites, Ahijah was in charge of the treasures of the house of God and the consecrated treasures.

(1 Chronicles 26:21) 
Concerning the sons of Laadan, sons of Gershon: from Laadan were the heads of the Gershonite families, and Cori.

(1 Chronicles 26:22) 
The sons of Jehieli: Zetham and his brother Joel, were in charge of the treasures of the house of the Lord.

(1 Chronicles 26:23) 
From the Amramites, the Izharites, the Hebronites, and the Uzzielites.

(1 Chronicles 26:24) 
Under Amram, the son of Moses, was Shubael, the chief.

(1 Chronicles 26:25) 
His brothers were Eliezer, whose son was Rehabiah; and his son was Jeshaiah; and his son was Joram; and his son was Zichri; and his son was Shelomith.

(1 Chronicles 26:26) 
This Shelomith and his brothers were in charge of the consecrated treasures, which King David, the heads of families, the military commanders (tribunes and centurions), and the army leaders had consecrated.

(1 Chronicles 26:27) 
These were things consecrated from battles and plunder.

(1 Chronicles 26:28) 
And all things that Samuel the prophet had consecrated, and Saul, the son of Kish, and Abner, the son of Ner, and Joab, the son of Zeruiah: all these consecrated things were under the authority of Shelomith and his brothers.

(1 Chronicles 26:29) 
From the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were appointed for external duties over Israel, to teach and to judge.

(1 Chronicles 26:30) 
From the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brothers, strong men numbering one thousand seven hundred, were in charge of Israel west of the Jordan, for all the work of the Lord and for the service of the king.

(1 Chronicles 26:31) 
Moreover, from the Hebronites, Jeriah was the chief, according to their genealogies and families. In the fortieth year of David's reign, they were counted, and very strong men were found among them in Jazer of Gilead.

(1 Chronicles 26:32) 
His brothers, also very strong men, numbered two thousand seven hundred, heads of families. King David appointed them over the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, for everything pertaining to God and to the king.

(1 Chronicles 27:1) 
Now, for the people of Israel, according to the official count of their people, the family leaders, the military commanders (of thousands and hundreds), and other officers who served the king in their assigned divisions, these groups were assigned to serve by taking turns, going in and out, for each month of the year, under individual leaders. Each of these service groups had twenty-four thousand men.

(1 Chronicles 27:2) 
Over the first division, for the first month, was Jasobaam, the son of Zabdiel. Under him were twenty-four thousand men.

(1 Chronicles 27:3) 
He was from the sons of Phares (a son of Judah), and he was the chief of all the commanders in the army for that first month.

(1 Chronicles 27:4) 
Over the second division for the second month was Dodai the Ahohite. And another commander of his division, named Abbat, served with him. And in his division were twenty-four thousand men.

(1 Chronicles 27:5) 
The third commander of the army, for the third month, was Banaias, the son of Joiada the priest. And in his division were twenty-four thousand men.

(1 Chronicles 27:6) 
This Banaias was the strongest among the thirty mighty men, and he was chief over them. And Amizabad, his son, was the appointed leader of this division.

(1 Chronicles 27:7) 
The fourth commander, for the fourth month, was Asahel, the brother of Joab. After Asahel's death, his son Zabadias took his place. And in his division were twenty-four thousand men.

(1 Chronicles 27:8) 
The fifth commander, for the fifth month, was the chief Samhuth the Israhite. And in his division were twenty-four thousand men.

(1 Chronicles 27:9) 
The sixth commander, for the sixth month, was Ira, the son of Acces the Thecuite. And in his division were twenty-four thousand men.

(1 Chronicles 27:10) 
The seventh commander, for the seventh month, was Heles the Phallonite, from the sons of Ephraim. And in his division were twenty-four thousand men.

(1 Chronicles 27:11) 
The eighth commander, for the eighth month, was Sobochai the Husathite, from the lineage of Zarahi. And in his division were twenty-four thousand men.

(1 Chronicles 27:12) 
The ninth commander, for the ninth month, was Abiezer the Anathothite, from the sons of Jemini (meaning Benjamin). And in his division were twenty-four thousand men.

(1 Chronicles 27:13) 
The tenth commander, for the tenth month, was Maharai the Nethophathite, from the lineage of Zarahi. And in his division were twenty-four thousand men.

(1 Chronicles 27:14) 
The eleventh commander, for the eleventh month, was Banaias the Pharathonite, from the sons of Ephraim. And in his division were twenty-four thousand men.

(1 Chronicles 27:15) 
The twelfth commander, for the twelfth month, was Holdai the Nethophathite, from the lineage of Othoniel. And in his division were twenty-four thousand men.

(1 Chronicles 27:16) 
Now, concerning the tribes of Israel, these were their leaders: For the Rubenites, Eliezer, the son of Zechri, was the appointed chief. For the Simeonites, Saphatias, the son of Maacha, was the chief.

(1 Chronicles 27:17) 
For the Levites, Hasabias, the son of Camuel, was the chief. For the Aäronites (meaning the priests descended from Aaron), Sadoc was the chief.

(1 Chronicles 27:18) 
For Judah, Eliu, who was a son of David himself, was the chief. For Issachar, Amri, the son of Michael, was the chief.

(1 Chronicles 27:19) 
For the Zabulonites, Ismaias, the son of Abdias, was the chief. For Nephthali, Jerimoth, the son of Ozriel, was the chief.

(1 Chronicles 27:20) 
For the sons of Ephraim, Osee, the son of Ozaziu, was the chief. For the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joël, the son of Phadaia, was the chief.

(1 Chronicles 27:21) 
For the half-tribe of Manasseh in Galaad, Addo, the son of Zacharias, was the chief. For Benjamin, Jasiel, the son of Abner, was the chief.

(1 Chronicles 27:22) 
For Dan, Azareël, the son of Jeroam, was the chief. These were the leaders for the sons of Israel.

(1 Chronicles 27:23) 
Now, King David did not want to include those twenty years old and under in his census, because the Lord had said that He would multiply Israel like the stars of the universe.

(1 Chronicles 27:24) 
Joab, the son of Sarvia, had begun to take the census, but he did not complete it. Because of this, the Lord became angry with Israel, and for that reason, the total number was not included in the Book of the Paralipomenon (Chronicles) of King David.

(1 Chronicles 27:25) 
Over the king's treasuries was Azmoth, the son of Adiel. And over the treasuries that were in the cities, and in the villages, and in the towers, Jonathas, the son of Ozias, presided.

(1 Chronicles 27:26) 
Over the field workers and the farmers who tilled the land was Ezri, the son of Chelub.

(1 Chronicles 27:27) 
Over the vineyards was Semeias the Romathite. Over the produce of the vineyards and the wine cellars was Zabdi the Siphmites.

(1 Chronicles 27:28) 
Over the olive groves and fig trees, which were in the lowlands, was Balanan the Gederite. Over the stores of oil was Joas.

(1 Chronicles 27:29) 
Over the herds of cattle that pastured in Saron was Sareth the Saronite. And over the livestock in the valleys was Saphat, the son of Addai.

(1 Chronicles 27:30) 
Over the camels was Obil the Ismahelite. And over the donkeys was Jadai the Meronathite.

(1 Chronicles 27:31) 
Over the flocks of sheep was Jaziz the Agarenus. All these were the chief officers over the property of King David.

(1 Chronicles 27:32) 
Now, Jonathas, David's nephew, was a wise and learned counselor. He, along with Jahiel, the son of Hachamoni, were with the king's sons.

(1 Chronicles 27:33) 
Achitophel was also a counselor to the king. And Chusai the Arachite was the king's trusted friend.

(1 Chronicles 27:34) 
And after Achitophel's influence declined, Jojada, the son of Banaias, and Abiathar became counselors. Now, the chief commander of the king's army was Joab.

(1 Chronicles 28:1) 
King David gathered all the leaders of Israel: the heads of the tribes, the officers of the military divisions who served the king, and the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds. He also called the overseers of those who managed the king’s possessions, and all of his sons. With them were the royal court officials, the mighty men, and every brave warrior in Jerusalem.

(1 Chronicles 28:2) 
Then King David rose to his feet and said, "Listen to me, my brothers, and all my people. I had planned in my heart to build a house of rest for the ark of the covenant of the Lord, which is the footstool of our God. And I had prepared everything necessary for this building."

(1 Chronicles 28:3) 
But God said to me, "You shall not build a house for My Name, because you are a man of war and have shed much blood."

(1 Chronicles 28:4) 
However, the Lord, the God of Israel, chose me from all the house of my father to be king over Israel forever. For He chose Judah to be the leading tribe, and from the house of Judah, He chose my father’s house. Then, from among the sons of my father, He chose me alone to make me king over all the people of Israel.

(1 Chronicles 28:5) 
And from among my own sons (for the Lord has given me many sons), He chose Solomon, my son, to sit upon the throne of the kingdom of the Lord over Israel.

(1 Chronicles 28:6) 
And He said to me, "Solomon your son shall build My house and My courts, where My presence will dwell. For I have chosen him for Myself to be My son, and I will be a Father to him."

(1 Chronicles 28:7) 
I will establish his kingdom forever, if he continues to keep My commandments and My judgments, just as he does today.

(1 Chronicles 28:8) 
Now therefore, in the sight of all Israel, which is the assembly of the Lord, and in the hearing of our God, observe and seek out all the commandments of the Lord our God. Do this so that you may possess this good land and leave it as an inheritance to your children after you, forever.

(1 Chronicles 28:9) 
And you, Solomon, my son, know the God of your father, and serve Him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind. For the Lord searches all hearts and understands every thought and intention of the mind. If you seek Him, you will find Him. But if you forsake Him, He will cast you off forever.

(1 Chronicles 28:10) 
See now, for the Lord has chosen you to build a house for His sanctuary. Therefore, be strong and do what He has called you to do.

(1 Chronicles 28:11) 
Then David gave Solomon his son the complete architectural plan for the porch, and for the temple structure itself, including its treasuries, its upper rooms, its inner chambers, and the house of the mercy seat (the Holy of Holies).

(1 Chronicles 28:12) 
He also gave him the plans for everything he had conceived and designed under divine inspiration from the Spirit of God. This included the plans for the courts, and for all the surrounding rooms where the treasures of the house of the Lord and the treasures of the holy things were kept.

(1 Chronicles 28:13) 
Furthermore, David provided the plans for the divisions of the priests and the Levites. These plans detailed all the work of the service of the house of the Lord and specified all the vessels required for the service of the Temple.

(1 Chronicles 28:14) 
He also specified the precise weight for the golden and silver clasps, and for all the vessels to be used for the construction work and the sacred ministry. Additionally, he stipulated the weight for each individual vessel, considering its specific use in the various ministries of the Temple.

(1 Chronicles 28:15) 
David specified the weight for the golden lampstands and their golden lamps, precisely according to the various measurements of each lampstand and its corresponding lamps. Similarly, for the silver lampstands and their lamps, he laid out the weight and the precise measurements, detailing the diversity and specific use for each.

(1 Chronicles 28:16) 
He specified the weight for the golden tables of the showbread and for the silver ones.

(1 Chronicles 28:17) 
He gave the precise weight for each of the golden forks, bowls, and cups. Likewise, for the silver vessels, he carefully weighed and determined the different weights in pounds.

(1 Chronicles 28:18) 
And for the altar of incense, he specified pure gold. He also provided plans for the golden cherubim, whose wings would be spread out and cover the ark of the covenant of the Lord, giving the appearance of a divine chariot-throne.

(1 Chronicles 28:19) 
"All these things," David said, "the Lord made me understand in writing, giving me insight into all the specific works and designs for the Temple."

(1 Chronicles 28:20) 
Then David said to Solomon his son, "Act with courage and be strong. Do not be afraid or discouraged, for the Lord my God is with you. He will not leave you nor abandon you until you have finished all the work for the service of the house of the Lord."

(1 Chronicles 28:21) 
"Look, the divisions of the priests and the Levites for all the ministry of the house of the Lord are with you. They will be prepared to assist you in every work with the utmost readiness. There are also those who are ready and willing with their whole heart for the ministry. For every work, you will have skilled overseers and wise men from every craft."

(1 Chronicles 29:1) 
King David then spoke to the entire assembly: "My son Solomon, whom God has uniquely chosen for this task, is a young boy and still tender. And the work is a great one, for this sacred dwelling is not being prepared for a man, but for God Himself."

(1 Chronicles 29:2) 
And I, with all my strength and resources, have diligently prepared the supplies for the house of my God: gold for objects of gold, silver for objects of silver, bronze for objects of bronze, iron for objects of iron, and wood for objects of wood. I have also prepared onyx stones and other precious stones for setting and inlaying, stones of various colors, and every kind of beautiful adornment, and a great deal of Parian marble.

(1 Chronicles 29:3) 
And beyond these materials which I offered for the house of my God, from my own personal possessions I have given gold and silver for the sacred dwelling of my God, in addition to what I had already prepared.

(1 Chronicles 29:4) 
This includes three thousand talents of pure gold, and seven thousand talents of refined silver, specifically for gilding the walls of the Temple.

(1 Chronicles 29:5) 
Gold for gold items, silver for silver items, and for all the work requiring the hands of skilled craftsmen. And if anyone is willing to make a voluntary offering, let him consecrate his hand to the Lord today.

(1 Chronicles 29:6) 
Therefore, the heads of the families, and the leaders of the tribes of Israel, and the commanders of thousands, and the commanders of hundreds, and the officials overseeing the king's work, all made their pledges.

(1 Chronicles 29:7) 
And for the work of the house of the Lord, they gave five thousand talents of gold, and ten thousand gold coins, and ten thousand talents of silver, and eighteen thousand talents of bronze, and also one hundred thousand talents of iron.

(1 Chronicles 29:8) 
And whoever possessed precious stones gave them into the treasuries of the house of the Lord, through the hand of Jehiel the Gershonite.

(1 Chronicles 29:9) 
And the people rejoiced when they voluntarily fulfilled their vows, because they offered them to the Lord with a whole heart. King David also rejoiced with great joy.

(1 Chronicles 29:10) 
And he blessed the Lord in the presence of the entire multitude, and said: "Blessed are You, O Lord God of Israel, our Father, from eternity to eternity."

(1 Chronicles 29:11) 
"Yours, O Lord, is the magnificence, and the power, and the glory, and the victory, and to You belongs praise. For all things that are in the universe and on the earth are Yours. Yours, O Lord, is the kingdom, and You are supreme above all rulers."

(1 Chronicles 29:12) 
"Yours are riches, and Yours is glory. You rule over all things. In Your hand are strength and power. In Your hand is the ability to make all things great and to make all things strong."

(1 Chronicles 29:13) 
"Now therefore, our God, we confess to You, and we praise Your glorious name."

(1 Chronicles 29:14) 
"Who am I, and who is my people, that we should be able to promise all these things to You? For all things are Yours. And what we have received from Your hand, we have given back to You."

(1 Chronicles 29:15) 
"For we are strangers and sojourners before You, just like all our fathers. Our days are like a shadow upon the earth, and there is no lasting permanence for us."

(1 Chronicles 29:16) 
"O Lord our God, all this abundance that we have prepared to build a house for Your holy name, it comes from Your hand, and all things are Yours."

(1 Chronicles 29:17) 
"I know, my God, that You test hearts and that You delight in sincerity. I also, in the sincerity of my heart, have gladly offered all these things. And I have seen Your people, who are gathered here, offering gifts to You with immense joy."

(1 Chronicles 29:18) 
"O Lord God of Abraham, and Isaac, and Israel, our fathers, preserve this intention of their hearts forever, and their enduring thoughts. And direct their hearts always toward You."

(1 Chronicles 29:19) 
"And to my son Solomon, give a perfect heart, so that he may keep Your commandments, Your testimonies, and Your ceremonies, and that he may do all things, and build the sacred dwelling for which I have prepared everything."

(1 Chronicles 29:20) 
Then David commanded the entire assembly: "Bless the Lord our God!" And the entire assembly blessed the Lord God of their fathers, and they bowed down and adored God, and also the king, showing respect.

(1 Chronicles 29:21) 
And they offered sacrifices to the Lord: and they presented burnt offerings on the following day after these events—a thousand bulls, a thousand rams, a thousand lambs with their drink offerings, and many other sacred ceremonies for all of Israel.

(1 Chronicles 29:22) 
And they ate and drank before the Lord with great joy on that day. And they anointed Solomon, David’s son, a second time. And they anointed him to the Lord as their ruler, and Zadok as the chief priest.

(1 Chronicles 29:23) 
So Solomon sat upon the throne of the Lord as king in place of David his father, and he pleased everyone, and all Israel obeyed him.

(1 Chronicles 29:24) 
Furthermore, all the princes and powerful men, and all the sons of King David, pledged their allegiance and subjected themselves to King Solomon.

(1 Chronicles 29:25) 
Therefore, the Lord greatly magnified Solomon above all Israel and gave him such royal glory as no king in Israel before him had possessed.

(1 Chronicles 29:26) 
So David, the son of Jesse, reigned over all Israel.

(1 Chronicles 29:27) 
The days during which he reigned over Israel were forty years: in Hebron he reigned seven years, and in Jerusalem thirty-three years.

(1 Chronicles 29:28) 
And he died in a good old age, full of days, riches, and glory. And Solomon his son reigned in his place.

(1 Chronicles 29:29) 
Now the acts of King David, from the earliest to the latest, are written in the books of Samuel the seer, and in the books of Nathan the prophet, and in the books of Gad the seer.

(1 Chronicles 29:30) 
They record all the details of his reign, his strength, and the times that passed under him, both in Israel and in all the kingdoms of the lands around them.