(Song of Solomon 1:1) 
Let him kiss me with the kiss of his mouth: Because your affections are better than wine,

(Song of Solomon 1:2) 
And the fragrance of your perfumes. Your name is good, like oil poured out, therefore the young girls love you.

(Song of Solomon 1:3) 
Draw me to you, and we will follow you. You will guide us by your affection. The king brought me into his wine cellar. We will be glad and rejoice in you, remembering your affections better than wine.

(Song of Solomon 1:4) 
You will find great favor and love in them.

(Song of Solomon 1:5) 
I am dark, but beautiful, daughters of Jerusalem, like the tents of Kedar, like the curtains of Solomon.

(Song of Solomon 1:6) 
Don't look down on me because I am dark, because the sun has darkened my skin. My mother's sons were angry with me, and forced me to be a keeper of the vineyards, but I did not watch over my own vineyard.

(Song of Solomon 1:7) 
Tell me, you whom my soul loves, where you feed your flock, where you rest at noon, lest I begin to wander after the flocks of your companions.

(Song of Solomon 1:8) 
If you do not know, fairest among women, go forth, and follow the footsteps of the flock, and feed your kids near the tents of the shepherds.

(Song of Solomon 1:9) 
To my team of horses in Pharaoh's chariots, I have brought you, my love.

(Song of Solomon 1:10) 
Your cheeks are as beautiful as a dove, your neck like jewels.

(Song of Solomon 1:11) 
We will make you gold ornaments, and decorate them with silver.

(Song of Solomon 1:12) 
While the king was reclining, my nard gave its fragrance.

(Song of Solomon 1:13) 
My beloved is a bundle of myrrh to me: it shall lie between my breasts.

(Song of Solomon 1:14) 
My beloved is a cluster of cypress to me in the vineyards of Engaddi.

(Song of Solomon 1:15) 
Behold, you are beautiful, my love, behold, you are beautiful: your eyes are like doves.

(Song of Solomon 1:16) 
Behold, you are beautiful, my beloved, and delightful: our bed is blooming.

(Song of Solomon 1:17) 
The covering of our houses is cedar, and our ceilings are cypress.

(Song of Solomon 2:1) 
I am like a flower in the field, and a lily of the valleys.

(Song of Solomon 2:2) 
As the lily is among the thorns, so is my beloved among the daughters.

(Song of Solomon 2:3) 
As the apple tree among the trees of the woods, so is my beloved among the sons.

(Song of Solomon 2:4) 
I have desired to sit under His shadow, and His fruit is sweet to my throat.

(Song of Solomon 2:5) 
He brought me into the wine cellar, and He established charity in me.

(Song of Solomon 2:6) 
Strengthen me with flowers, surround me with apples, because I languish with love.

(Song of Solomon 2:7) 
His left hand is under my head, and His right hand will embrace me.

(Song of Solomon 2:8) 
I adjure you, daughters of Jerusalem, by the gazelles and the hinds of the fields, that you do not rouse, nor awaken my beloved, until she herself wishes.

(Song of Solomon 2:9) 
The voice of my beloved! Behold, this one comes, leaping upon the mountains, skipping over the hills.

(Song of Solomon 2:10) 
My beloved is like a gazelle, or a young hart. Behold, He stands behind our wall, looking through the windows, looking through the lattices.

(Song of Solomon 2:11) 
Behold my beloved speaks to me: “Arise, make haste, my love, my dove, my beautiful one, and come.”

(Song of Solomon 2:12) 
For now the winter is past, the rain is gone and departed.

(Song of Solomon 2:13) 
The flowers have appeared in the land, the time of pruning has come.

(Song of Solomon 2:14) 
The voice of the turtledove is heard in our land.

(Song of Solomon 2:15) 
The fig tree has produced its green figs: the vines in bloom have given their fragrance. Arise, my love, my beautiful one, and come.

(Song of Solomon 2:16) 
My dove in the clefts of the rock, in the hollow places of the wall, show me your face, let your voice sound in my ears: for your voice is sweet, and your face is beautiful.

(Song of Solomon 2:17) 
Catch the little foxes that spoil the vines: for our vines have flourished.

(Song of Solomon 2:18) 
My beloved is for me, and I am for Him, who feeds among the lilies.

(Song of Solomon 3:1) 
I went to my bed in the night, seeking the one whom my soul loves: I sought him, and I did not find him.

(Song of Solomon 3:2) 
I will get up, and I will go around the city: through the streets and the squares, I will seek the one whom my soul loves. I sought him, and I did not find him.

(Song of Solomon 3:3) 
The watchmen found me, those who guard the city: “Have you seen the one whom my soul loves?”

(Song of Solomon 3:4) 
A little further on, I found the one whom my soul loves: I held him, and I will not let him go until I bring him into my mother's house, and into the chamber of her who bore me.

(Song of Solomon 3:5) 
I adjure you, daughters of Jerusalem, by the gazelles, and the hinds of the fields, that you not stir up, nor awake the beloved, until she desires it.

(Song of Solomon 3:6) 
Who is this, ascending through the desert like a column of smoke from the perfumes of myrrh, and frankincense, and every powder of the perfumer?

(Song of Solomon 3:7) 
Behold, the bed of Solomon: sixty strong men surround it, of the strongest of Israel.

(Song of Solomon 3:8) 
All holding swords, and warriors, each man has his sword upon his thigh, because of the fear of the night.

(Song of Solomon 3:9) 
King Solomon made himself a bed, from the wood of Lebanon.

(Song of Solomon 3:10) 
He made its columns of silver: the support of gold, the ascent of purple; he paved the middle with charity, on account of the daughters of Jerusalem.

(Song of Solomon 3:11) 
Go out, and see the daughters of Zion, in the bed where his mother comforted him, where she bore him.

(Song of Solomon 4:1) 
How beautiful you are, my love! How beautiful you are! Your eyes are like doves, hidden from those who would do you harm.

(Song of Solomon 4:2) 
Your hair is like a flock of goats that descends from Mount Gilead.

(Song of Solomon 4:3) 
Your teeth are like a flock of sheep that has come up from washing, all of which are twin, and there is no barren one among them.

(Song of Solomon 4:4) 
Your lips are like a scarlet thread, and your mouth is lovely. Your cheeks are like a piece of pomegranate, hidden from those who would do you harm.

(Song of Solomon 4:5) 
Your neck is like the tower of David, built with ramparts: a thousand shields hang from it, all the armor of the strong.

(Song of Solomon 4:6) 
Your two breasts are like two fawns, twins of a gazelle, which graze among the lilies.

(Song of Solomon 4:7) 
Until the day breathes, and the shadows decline, I will go to the mountain of myrrh, and to the hill of incense.

(Song of Solomon 4:8) 
You are entirely beautiful, my love; there is no stain in you.

(Song of Solomon 4:9) 
Come from Lebanon, my spouse, come from Lebanon, come and descend; you will be crowned from the head of Amana, from the top of Sanir and Hermon, from the dens of lions, from the mountains of leopards.

(Song of Solomon 4:10) 
You have wounded my heart, my sister, my spouse; you have wounded my heart with one look of your eyes, and with one strand of hair on your neck.

(Song of Solomon 4:11) 
How beautiful are your breasts, my sister, my spouse! Your breasts are more beautiful than wine, and the fragrance of your perfumes is above all spices.

(Song of Solomon 4:12) 
Your lips, my spouse, drip like honey; milk and honey are under your tongue: and the fragrance of your garments is like the fragrance of incense.

(Song of Solomon 4:13) 
A garden enclosed is my sister, my spouse; a garden enclosed, a fountain sealed.

(Song of Solomon 4:14) 
Your plants are a paradise of pomegranates with fruit; the cypress is with spikenard.

(Song of Solomon 4:15) 
Spikenard and saffron, cinnamon and calamus, with all the trees of Lebanon; myrrh and aloes, with all the chief perfumes.

(Song of Solomon 4:16) 
Awake, north wind, and come, south wind; blow upon my garden, and let its spices flow. Let my beloved come into his garden, and eat the fruit of his choice fruits.

(Song of Solomon 5:1) 
I came to my garden, my sister, my bride: I have gathered my myrrh with my spices: I have eaten the honeycomb with my honey, I have drunk my wine with my milk. Eat, friends, and drink; and be inebriated, dearest ones.

(Song of Solomon 5:2) 
I sleep, but my heart stays awake. Listen! The voice of my beloved, knocking! Open to me, my sister, my friend, my dove, my spotless one: for my head is full of dew, and my locks with the drops of the night.

(Song of Solomon 5:3) 
I have taken off my tunic; how shall I put it on again? I have washed my feet; how shall I defile them?

(Song of Solomon 5:4) 
My beloved put his hand in at the hole, and my bowels trembled at his touch.

(Song of Solomon 5:5) 
I arose to open to my beloved: my hands dropped myrrh, and my fingers were full of the best myrrh.

(Song of Solomon 5:6) 
I opened the door of my house to my beloved: but he had turned aside, and was gone. My soul melted when he spoke. I sought him, and did not find him: I called him, and he did not answer me.

(Song of Solomon 5:7) 
The watchmen that go about the city found me: they struck me and wounded me: the keepers of the walls took away my cloak.

(Song of Solomon 5:8) 
I charge you, O daughters of Jerusalem, if you find my beloved, that you tell him that I languish with love.

(Song of Solomon 5:9) 
What is your beloved more than another beloved, O most beautiful among women? What is your beloved more than another beloved, that you have so charged us?

(Song of Solomon 5:10) 
My beloved is white and ruddy: chosen out of thousands.

(Song of Solomon 5:11) 
His head is like the finest gold: his locks are as the branches of palm trees, black as a raven.

(Song of Solomon 5:12) 
His eyes are like doves upon the brooks of waters, which are washed in milk, and sit near the fullest streams.

(Song of Solomon 5:13) 
His cheeks are as a bed of spices, where the fragrant herbs are. His lips are lilies, dropping the finest myrrh.

(Song of Solomon 5:14) 
His hands are rings of gold, filled with hyacinths. His belly is ivory, distinguished by sapphires.

(Song of Solomon 5:15) 
His legs are marble pillars, which are set upon golden bases. His appearance is like that of Lebanon.

(Song of Solomon 5:16) 
His throat is most sweet, and altogether desirable. Such is my beloved, and he is my friend, O daughters of Jerusalem.

(Song of Solomon 6:1) 
Where has your beloved gone, O most beautiful among women? Where has your beloved turned aside, and we will seek him with you?

(Song of Solomon 6:2) 
My beloved has gone down to his garden, to the beds of spices, to graze in the gardens, and to gather lilies.

(Song of Solomon 6:3) 
I am for my beloved, and my beloved is for me, who grazes among the lilies.

(Song of Solomon 6:4) 
You are beautiful, my friend, as Thersa, beautiful as Jerusalem, fearsome as an army set in array.

(Song of Solomon 6:5) 
Turn away your eyes from me, for they have made me fly away.

(Song of Solomon 6:6) 
Your teeth are like a flock of sheep which have come up from the washing, all twins, and there is not one barren among them.

(Song of Solomon 6:7) 
Like a piece of pomegranate are your cheeks, within your veil.

(Song of Solomon 6:8) 
There are sixty queens, and eighty concubines, and young women without number:

(Song of Solomon 6:9) 
My dove is one, my perfect one is one, she is the only one of her mother, chosen by her who bore her. The daughters saw her, and called her blessed; the queens and concubines, and they praised her.

(Song of Solomon 6:10) 
Who is she that comes forth like the dawn rising, beautiful as the moon, chosen as the sun, fearsome as an army set in array?

(Song of Solomon 6:11) 
I went down to the garden of nuts, to see the fruits of the valley, and to examine if the vine had flourished, and if the pomegranates had sprouted.

(Song of Solomon 6:12) 
I knew not; my soul disturbed me. I set my soul, that I might hear;

(Song of Solomon 6:13) 
Return, return, O Shulamite; return, return, that we may look upon you.

(Song of Solomon 7:1) 
How beautiful you are! How lovely, dearest, in your delights!

(Song of Solomon 7:2) 
Your stature is like a palm tree, and your breasts, like clusters of dates.

(Song of Solomon 7:3) 
I said: “I will go up into the palm tree, and seize its fruits.”

(Song of Solomon 7:4) 
And let your breasts be like clusters of the vine, and the fragrance of your breath like apples.

(Song of Solomon 7:5) 
Your throat is like the best wine, which flows for my beloved, bringing the lips of those asleep and their teeth to life.

(Song of Solomon 7:6) 
I am for my beloved, and his desire is for me.

(Song of Solomon 7:7) 
Come, my beloved, let us go forth into the fields, and stay in the villages.

(Song of Solomon 7:8) 
In the morning, let us arise to the vineyards. Let us see if the vine has flowered, if the flowers have opened, if the pomegranates have borne fruit. There I will give you my breasts.

(Song of Solomon 7:9) 
The mandrakes give off their fragrance. At our gates are all kinds of fruits, both new and old; my beloved, I have kept them for you.

(Song of Solomon 7:10) 
I have stored up new and old fruits for you, my beloved.

(Song of Solomon 7:11) 
Come, my beloved, let us go forth into the fields, and stay in the villages.

(Song of Solomon 7:12) 
In the morning, let us arise to the vineyards. Let us see if the vine has flowered, if the flowers have opened, if the pomegranates have borne fruit. There I will give you my breasts.

(Song of Solomon 7:13) 
The mandrakes give off their fragrance at our gates: all kinds of fruits, both new and old, my beloved, I have stored up for you.

(Song of Solomon 8:1) 
Oh, that you were like a brother to me, nourished at my mother’s breast! Then I could find you outside, and kiss you, and no one would despise me anymore!

(Song of Solomon 8:2) 
I would lead you, and bring you into my mother's house: there you would teach me. I would give you spiced wine, and the sweetest new wine.

(Song of Solomon 8:3) 
His left hand is under my head, and his right hand embraces me.

(Song of Solomon 8:4) 
I charge you, daughters of Jerusalem, do not stir, or awaken my love, until she wants to.

(Song of Solomon 8:5) 
Who is this coming up from the wilderness, overflowing with delights, leaning on her beloved? Under the apple tree I awakened you. There your mother was corrupted, there she who bore you was defiled.

(Song of Solomon 8:6) 
Put me like a seal on your heart, like a seal on your arm. For love is as strong as death, jealousy is as hard as hell. Its lamps are lamps of fire and flame.

(Song of Solomon 8:7) 
Many waters cannot extinguish love, nor can the floods overwhelm it. If a man would give all the wealth of his house for love, he would be utterly despised.

(Song of Solomon 8:8) 
We have a little sister, and she has no breasts. What shall we do for our sister on the day she is spoken for?

(Song of Solomon 8:9) 
If she is a wall, let us build on her battlements of silver. If she is a door, let us enclose her with boards of cedar.

(Song of Solomon 8:10) 
I am a wall, and my breasts are like towers. Therefore, I am in his eyes as one who has found peace.

(Song of Solomon 8:11) 
Solomon had a vineyard in Baalhamon. He entrusted the vineyard to keepers; each was to bring for its fruit a thousand pieces of silver.

(Song of Solomon 8:12) 
My own vineyard is before me. The thousand are yours, Solomon, and two hundred for those who guard its fruit.

(Song of Solomon 8:13) 
You who dwell in the gardens, my companions are listening; let me hear your voice.

(Song of Solomon 8:14) 
Hasten, my beloved, and be like a gazelle, or a young stag on the mountains of spices.