(Wisdom 1:1) 
Love justice, all you who are judges of the earth. Think of the Lord with goodness, and seek Him with a simple heart.

(Wisdom 1:2) 
He is found by those who do not test Him, and He appears to those who have faith in Him.

(Wisdom 1:3) 
Perverse thoughts separate one from God, but virtue corrects those who are unwise.

(Wisdom 1:4) 
For wisdom will not enter into a malevolent soul, nor dwell in a body subject to sins.

(Wisdom 1:5) 
The Holy Spirit of discipline will flee from the false, and will depart from thoughts that are without understanding, and will be rejected by the reprobate.

(Wisdom 1:6) 
Wisdom is a friend to man, and will not leave the wicked because of the words of his lips, for God is the witness of his conscience, the examiner of his heart, and the observer of his tongue.

(Wisdom 1:7) 
For the Lord is the spirit of wisdom, and He knows all things, and He who knows all things, knows wisdom, and He who has created wisdom, has investigated wisdom.

(Wisdom 1:8) 
For He loves those who dwell with wisdom.

(Wisdom 1:9) 
For she is more beautiful than the sun, and above all the arrangement of the stars: being compared to light, she is found to be first.

(Wisdom 1:10) 
After this, night, malice, and death follow.

(Wisdom 1:11) 
But those who remain in her will not fear, but will rest with her.

(Wisdom 1:12) 
For death and life are in her hand, and good will is pleasing to her.

(Wisdom 1:13) 
He who displeases her, becomes so through hatred, wickedness, and sins.

(Wisdom 1:14) 
For sometimes she is with the wicked, but wickedness will not be believed.

(Wisdom 1:15) 
For he who hopes in vanity generates the wind, and he who follows flying birds, pursues foolishness.

(Wisdom 1:16) 
For he departs from the Lord and from the wisdom of His Spirit.

(Wisdom 1:17) 
For the wicked do not speak well of what belongs to God, and those who are without discipline cannot keep her.

(Wisdom 1:18) 
For the Holy Spirit is divided from them, and has departed from their thoughts.

(Wisdom 1:19) 
For wisdom is a loving spirit, and will not acquit the blasphemer from his lips, for God is the witness of his conscience, and the examiner of his heart, and the observer of his tongue.

(Wisdom 2:1) 
Fools think wrongly. Their thoughts are empty and confused.

(Wisdom 2:2) 
They say, “Our life is short and full of sorrows, and there is no cure for death, and no one returns from the grave.”

(Wisdom 2:3) 
We were born by chance, and after this, there will be nothing. Death is like a final seal: no one can come back.

(Wisdom 2:4) 
We came from nothing and will return to nothing. Our breath is like smoke in our nostrils, and our thoughts are like a spark that leaps in our hearts.

(Wisdom 2:5) 
When the body is extinguished, it will turn to ashes, and the spirit will vanish like soft air.

(Wisdom 2:6) 
In time, our name will be forgotten, and no one will remember our deeds.

(Wisdom 2:7) 
We pass like a shadow and cannot return. It is sealed: no one can return.

(Wisdom 2:8) 
Come, then, let us enjoy the good things that are here. Let us enjoy the pleasures of youth.

(Wisdom 2:9) 
Let us fill ourselves with costly wine and perfumes, and let the flowers of spring pass us by.

(Wisdom 2:10) 
Let us crown ourselves with roses before they wither. Let none of us be without our share of our luxury.

(Wisdom 2:11) 
Let us have power over the just; for that which is weak is useless.

(Wisdom 2:12) 
Let us oppress the poor and the just, and let us not spare the widow. Let us show no respect for the gray hairs of the old.

(Wisdom 2:13) 
Let our strength be our law of justice, for the weak are shown to be useless.

(Wisdom 2:14) 
So let us lay traps for the just, because they are of no use to us, and they are against our deeds. They condemn us for the sins of our life.

(Wisdom 2:15) 
They claim to have knowledge of God and call themselves the children of God.

(Wisdom 2:16) 
They are a rebuke to our thoughts, and just to look at them is a burden to us.

(Wisdom 2:17) 
Their life is not like that of others, and their ways are different.

(Wisdom 2:18) 
We are regarded as counterfeit coins, and they avoid our ways as if they were unclean.

(Wisdom 2:19) 
They consider the end of the just to be blessed, and they boast of God as their father.

(Wisdom 2:20) 
Let us see, then, if their words are true. Let us test what will happen to them.

(Wisdom 2:21) 
If the just one is truly the Son of God, God will help him and deliver him from the hands of his enemies.

(Wisdom 2:22) 
Let us test him with insult and torture, so that we can understand his gentleness and know his patience.

(Wisdom 2:23) 
Let us condemn him to a most shameful death, for he will be protected, as he claims, by his own words.

(Wisdom 2:24) 
This is what they thought, and they were wrong, for their wickedness blinded them.

(Wisdom 2:25) 
They did not know the mysteries of God, nor did they think that justice would be rewarded or that the souls of the saints would be recompensed.

(Wisdom 2:26) 
For God created man to be imperishable, and He made him in the image of his own likeness.

(Wisdom 2:27) 
By the devil’s envy, death entered the world,

(Wisdom 2:28) 
and those who belong to him imitate him.

(Wisdom 3:1) 
The souls of the just are in the hand of God, and torment will not touch them.

(Wisdom 3:2) 
Fools thought the just were dead, and they considered their death a punishment,

(Wisdom 3:3) 
and their departure an utter destruction;

(Wisdom 3:4) 
but they are at peace.

(Wisdom 3:5) 
And though in the sight of men they suffered torments, their hope is full of immortality.

(Wisdom 3:6) 
Having been punished in a few things, they will receive many blessings, for God tested them,

(Wisdom 3:7) 
and found them worthy of Himself.

(Wisdom 3:8) 
As gold in the furnace, He has tried them, and as a holocaust offering, He received them.

(Wisdom 3:9) 
And in the time of their visitation they shall shine, and shall run to and fro as sparks among the reeds.

(Wisdom 3:10) 
They shall judge the nations, and rule over the peoples, and the Lord will reign over them forever.

(Wisdom 3:11) 
Those who trust in Him will understand the truth, and those who are faithful in love will abide in Him; for grace and peace is to His elect.

(Wisdom 3:12) 
But the wicked will suffer their own condemnation, who have departed from justice.

(Wisdom 3:13) 
For it is better not to be, than to live and work wickedness.

(Wisdom 3:14) 
Certainly, those who think evil and speak impious things will be punished more severely.

(Wisdom 3:15) 
For the hope of the impious is like fluff which is taken away by the wind, and like thin foam that is dispersed by a storm: and like smoke dispersed by the wind,

(Wisdom 3:16) 
and like the memory of a guest who stayed a single day that quickly passes.

(Wisdom 3:17) 
But the just shall live forever, and their reward is with the Lord, and the care of them is with the Most High.

(Wisdom 3:18) 
Therefore they shall receive a kingdom of glory and a crown of beauty from the hand of the Lord: because with His right hand He will protect them, and with His arm He will defend them.

(Wisdom 3:19) 
For He will take His zeal as armor, and creation as a weapon to avenge the enemies.

(Wisdom 3:20) 
He will put on justice as a breastplate, and will take the helmet of sincere judgment.

(Wisdom 3:21) 
He will take invulnerable holiness as a shield,

(Wisdom 3:22) 
and He will sharpen severe anger as a sword.

(Wisdom 3:23) 
The whole world will be gathered against the foolish.

(Wisdom 3:24) 
And they will go forth, rejoicing in their scourging.

(Wisdom 4:1) 
It is better to be childless, if that keeps you virtuous, because virtue's legacy is immortal, and it is honored by both God and humanity.

(Wisdom 4:2) 
When virtue is present, it imitates God. The memory of it is honored, because it is with God and with all humanity.

(Wisdom 4:3) 
When virtue is present, it stirs up other virtuous deeds, and it crowns the incorruptible victory of eternity.

(Wisdom 4:4) 
The unjust are quickly destroyed by wickedness, and the offspring of the impious will not have a solid foundation.

(Wisdom 4:5) 
Even if the wicked live a long life, they are considered to be nothing. Their old age is without any honor.

(Wisdom 4:6) 
Even if they die quickly, they have no hope, nor comfort on judgment day.

(Wisdom 4:7) 
The end of the wicked is horrific.

(Wisdom 4:8) 
Even if the just die young, they will be at peace.

(Wisdom 4:9) 
For honorable old age is not measured by the passing of time or the number of years, but by the wisdom of a just man, and old age is a blameless life.

(Wisdom 4:10) 
The one who is pleasing to God is beloved, and the one who has lived among sinners is taken away, so that wickedness does not corrupt his mind, nor deception deceive his soul.

(Wisdom 4:11) 
For the fascination of evil obscures goodness, and the instability of lust perverts the mind without malice.

(Wisdom 4:12) 
Having become perfect in a short time, he lived a long life. Because his soul was pleasing to God, God hurried to take him from the midst of wickedness.

(Wisdom 4:13) 
The people see, but they don't understand, nor do they take it to heart. God's grace, mercy, and concern are with His holy ones, His chosen ones.

(Wisdom 4:14) 
He who dies justly is at peace.

(Wisdom 4:15) 
I understood this, that wisdom is good, and I worked at it in my life. I pursued it, and I was zealous for good things.

(Wisdom 4:16) 
For loving justice is the perfection of wisdom, and knowing His power is the root of the kingdom.

(Wisdom 4:17) 
If you govern provinces and judge nations, the kings will admire wisdom.

(Wisdom 4:18) 
Because they have heard about its wisdom, they have told others about it. And those who have heard it have been amazed by it.

(Wisdom 4:19) 
If wisdom reigns, it will be honored forever. For glory passes quickly, but wisdom remains forever.

(Wisdom 5:1) 
Then the just will stand with great certainty against those who tormented them, and who took away their labors.

(Wisdom 5:2) 
Seeing this, the wicked will be thrown into terrible fear, and they will be amazed at this unexpected salvation.

(Wisdom 5:3) 
They will say to themselves, repenting, and groaning in anguish of spirit: "This is the one we once held up to ridicule and in a form of contempt."

(Wisdom 5:4) 
We foolish ones considered his life to be madness and his end without honor.

(Wisdom 5:5) 
How, then, has he been numbered among the sons of God, and how is his lot among the saints?

(Wisdom 5:6) 
Therefore, we have strayed from the way of truth, and the light of justice did not shine upon us, nor did the sun rise for us.

(Wisdom 5:7) 
We have been oppressed by the way of wickedness and destruction, and we have walked difficult paths, but we have not known the way of the Lord.

(Wisdom 5:8) 
What has pride done for us? Or what profit did the boasting of riches give to us?

(Wisdom 5:9) 
All those things have passed away like a shadow, and like a messenger, they have flown away.

(Wisdom 5:10) 
And like a ship that passes through a wave, whose past is not found, nor the trace of its path in the wake of the waves.

(Wisdom 5:11) 
Or like a bird that passes through the air, whose path leaves no trace, but only the striking of the wind, and the light impulse of the air, which it passed through.

(Wisdom 5:12) 
Or like an arrow shot into the body, dividing the air, which immediately is united again: so also we, being born, immediately ceased to be.

(Wisdom 5:13) 
Indeed, our hope is extinguished, like down: and in winter, it is scattered like a leaf from a tree.

(Wisdom 5:14) 
For all our life has passed away like a shadow, and there is no return after our death: and it is sealed and confirmed, because no one returns.

(Wisdom 5:15) 
Therefore, blessed are the just who are in the Lord, and blessed are those who have hoped in the Lord: and those who were in them did not look to vanity, nor did they know vanity.

(Wisdom 5:16) 
These, in the day of their visitation, will shine, and like sparks, they will run in the branches.

(Wisdom 5:17) 
They will judge the nations, and they will rule over the peoples: and the Lord will reign over them forever.

(Wisdom 5:18) 
Those who trust in him will understand the truth, and those who are faithful in love will remain in him: because grace and peace belong to His elect.

(Wisdom 6:1) 
All you who judge the earth: love righteousness, and feel the goodness of God, and seek Him with a simple heart.

(Wisdom 6:2) 
He is found by those who do not test Him, and He will appear to those who have faith in Him.

(Wisdom 6:3) 
Evil thoughts separate you from God. But the power of God will expose the wicked.

(Wisdom 6:4) 
For wisdom will not enter a hateful soul, nor will it dwell in a body held in sin.

(Wisdom 6:5) 
The Holy Spirit of discipline will flee from what is fake, and will remove Himself from thoughts that lack understanding, and He will be rejected by the proud.

(Wisdom 6:6) 
Because wisdom is far from pride, and it will never embrace a lie.

(Wisdom 6:7) 
The wise, disciplined, and understanding person will flee from wickedness.

(Wisdom 6:8) 
For the Holy Spirit of discipline will flee from what is fake, and will remove Himself from thoughts that lack understanding, and He will be rejected by the proud.

(Wisdom 6:9) 
The Holy Spirit of discipline will flee from what is fake, and will remove Himself from thoughts that lack understanding, and He will be rejected by the proud.

(Wisdom 6:10) 
The beginning of wisdom is to fear God. To understand the good is to obey the law of God.

(Wisdom 6:11) 
The reign of righteousness is holiness and His glory; and its end is a holy life.

(Wisdom 6:12) 
If you love thrones, rulers, and scepters, love wisdom, so you may reign forever.

(Wisdom 6:13) 
For what is quicker than wisdom, which does all things?

(Wisdom 6:14) 
And if virtue is loved, these virtues are the works of wisdom. It teaches temperance, prudence, justice, and fortitude; nothing is more useful to men in life.

(Wisdom 6:15) 
If anyone desires extensive experience, wisdom knows the past, and she estimates what is to come.

(Wisdom 6:16) 
It knows the cunning of speech, and the answers to arguments. She knows signs and wonders before they happen.

(Wisdom 6:17) 
I therefore determined to take her as my life, and my good, and riches; and I did not compare her to any precious stone.

(Wisdom 6:18) 
Because she precedes all good things and comes to me with every good thing.

(Wisdom 6:19) 
All good things came to me together with her, and countless blessings through her hands.

(Wisdom 6:20) 
And I rejoiced in them all, because she followed me.

(Wisdom 6:21) 
I did not know that she was the mother of all these things. For I learned without pretense, and I share without envy, and I do not hide her riches.

(Wisdom 6:22) 
For she is a treasure to men without blemish; those who have used her have obtained the friendship of God, and are commended because of the works of discipline.

(Wisdom 6:23) 
Therefore I prayed, and understanding was given to me. I called on her, and the Spirit of wisdom came to me.

(Wisdom 6:24) 
And I preferred her to kingdoms and thrones, and I considered riches nothing in comparison to her.

(Wisdom 6:25) 
Nor did I compare her to a precious stone, because all gold, in comparison to her, is but a grain of sand, and silver will be considered as mud before her.

(Wisdom 6:26) 
I loved her above health and beauty, and I determined to have her as my light, because her illumination is never extinguished.

(Wisdom 6:27) 
But all good things came to me together with her, and endless blessings through her hands.

(Wisdom 7:1) 
I also am a mortal man, similar to you, and from the earth, earthy.

(Wisdom 7:2) 
And in my mother's womb, I was formed in the flesh.

(Wisdom 7:3) 
Born at one time, I will share the same departure from life.

(Wisdom 7:4) 
But I will call upon all: “God of wisdom, and Spirit of understanding, come into me.”

(Wisdom 7:5) 
A throne of royalty is prepared for me, and I said: “Spouse and dwelling, and all of her works, are mine.”

(Wisdom 7:6) 
God gave me true knowledge, and the knowledge of the saints, so that I might know the order of the ages and the power of the elements,

(Wisdom 7:7) 
the beginning, end, and middle of times; changes of the times, and the turnings of the ages.

(Wisdom 7:8) 
For I know every manifest and hidden thing. I know all things that are and are to come.

(Wisdom 7:9) 
Wisdom, the maker of all things, taught me. For she taught me.

(Wisdom 7:10) 
In her is the understanding spirit, holy, unique, multifaceted, subtle, mobile, eloquent, unpolluted, clear, unharmed, loving good, sharp,

(Wisdom 7:11) 
free, beneficent, humane, stable, certain, quiet, all-powerful, overseeing all, and penetrating all intelligent spirits, pure, and most subtle.

(Wisdom 7:12) 
For wisdom is more mobile than all that is mobile. Because of her purity, she penetrates and pervades all things.

(Wisdom 7:13) 
For she is a vapor of the power of God and a clear emanation of the glory of the Almighty God; therefore, nothing impure enters into her.

(Wisdom 7:14) 
For she is the brightness of eternal light, and a mirror without blemish of God’s majesty, and the image of His goodness.

(Wisdom 7:15) 
And although she is one, she can do all things. Remaining in herself, she renews all things, and through the nations she transfers herself to holy souls, making them friends of God and prophets.

(Wisdom 7:16) 
For her friendship is good, and her works are honorable.

(Wisdom 7:17) 
For she teaches temperance and prudence, justice and virtue. Nothing is more useful to men in life than these things.

(Wisdom 7:18) 
If anyone loves justice, her labors are virtues. For she teaches temperance and prudence, than which nothing is more useful to men in life.

(Wisdom 7:19) 
But if anyone desires much experience, she knows the past, and judges of the future. She knows the subtleties of words and the solving of riddles. She knows signs and wonders before they happen, and the events of the times.

(Wisdom 7:20) 
So, I proposed all these things to myself and brought them in together with her, because wisdom, the maker of all things, taught me.

(Wisdom 7:21) 
For in her is an understanding spirit, holy, unique, multifaceted, subtle, mobile, eloquent, unpolluted, clear, unharmed, loving good, sharp, free, beneficent, humane, stable, certain, quiet, all-powerful, overseeing all, and penetrating all intelligent spirits, pure, and most subtle.

(Wisdom 7:22) 
For receiving wisdom, I will share with the good, and I will be approved by Him who is from the beginning.

(Wisdom 8:1) 
Wisdom reaches from one end of the universe to the other with strength and orders everything gently.

(Wisdom 8:2) 
I have always loved wisdom, seeking her since my earliest youth.

(Wisdom 8:3) 
I desired to marry her. I loved her beauty.

(Wisdom 8:4) 
Her lineage comes from God, and God loves those who live with her.

(Wisdom 8:5) 
Her discipline leads to immortality, and remembering her means understanding God's will.

(Wisdom 8:6) 
If you love thrones and scepters, O rulers of the people, then honor wisdom, that you may reign forever.

(Wisdom 8:7) 
What is wisdom, and how was she made? I will tell you. I will not hide the secrets of God from you.

(Wisdom 8:8) 
I am the beginning of her generation, and I am ordered by the knowledge of God.

(Wisdom 8:9) 
I will proclaim her knowledge and her works, and I will not hide the secrets of God from you.

(Wisdom 8:10) 
I am always with Him, and I am one with Him in everything.

(Wisdom 8:11) 
From eternity, I have existed, and I will never fail, nor will I abandon those who love me.

(Wisdom 8:12) 
When I came to know that wisdom was good, I sought her out.

(Wisdom 8:13) 
I knew that I would not possess her unless God gave her to me. This was a proper and correct understanding.

(Wisdom 8:14) 
Then, I was a good youth, and I acquired a good soul.

(Wisdom 8:15) 
Indeed, though I was good, I came into an unblemished body.

(Wisdom 8:16) 
And knowing that I could not be chaste unless God gave it, and that was wisdom itself—to know that it was a gift—I approached the Lord and begged Him.

(Wisdom 8:17) 
Then I said in my heart, “Father, Lord of mercy, I ask You, give me wisdom, which attends You on Your throne, and is with me in my works.”

(Wisdom 8:18) 
And do not cast me out from among Your children.

(Wisdom 8:19) 
For I am Your servant, the son of Your handmaid. Send wisdom from Your holy seat and from the throne of Your glory, that she may be with me and labor with me, so that I may know what is pleasing to You.

(Wisdom 8:20) 
For she knows and understands all things. She will guide me in my works prudently and will guard me.

(Wisdom 8:21) 
Then my works will be acceptable, and I will judge Your people justly, and I will be worthy of my father's throne.

(Wisdom 8:22) 
For who of men can know the counsel of God? Or who can understand what God wills?

(Wisdom 8:23) 
The thoughts of mortals are timid, and our plans are uncertain.

(Wisdom 8:24) 
The body that decays weighs down the soul, and the earthly dwelling depresses the mind, which thinks much.

(Wisdom 8:25) 
And we can barely guess what is on earth, and what is before our eyes we find with difficulty.

(Wisdom 8:26) 
But who can investigate the things in the heavens?

(Wisdom 8:27) 
For who will know Your will unless You give wisdom and send Your Holy Spirit from the highest heavens?

(Wisdom 8:28) 
Then the paths of those on earth were set right, and men learned what pleases You.

(Wisdom 8:29) 
For through wisdom, those who have pleased You, Lord, since the beginning, were healed.

(Wisdom 9:1) 
O Lord, God of our fathers and God of mercy, You made all things by Your word,

(Wisdom 9:2) 
and by Your wisdom You formed man, so that he might govern the creatures that You made,

(Wisdom 9:3) 
and that he might rule the world in holiness and justice, and judge with an upright heart:

(Wisdom 9:4) 
give me wisdom, who sits beside Your throne, and do not cast me out from among Your children:

(Wisdom 9:5) 
because I am Your servant and the son of Your handmaid, a man weak in mind and short of understanding, and lacking in the knowledge of Your laws.

(Wisdom 9:6) 
For even if someone is perfect among the sons of men, without Your wisdom he will be held as nothing.

(Wisdom 9:7) 
And even if he were perfect, without Your wisdom he would be regarded as nothing.

(Wisdom 9:8) 
I have been with You, wisdom, and the worker of Your thrones, and I do not know Your works, nor what I should do.

(Wisdom 9:9) 
For what man can know the counsel of God? Or who can understand what God wills?

(Wisdom 9:10) 
For the thoughts of mortals are fearful, and our understandings are uncertain.

(Wisdom 9:11) 
For the body that corrupts weighs down the soul, and this earthly dwelling depresses the understanding that contemplates many things.

(Wisdom 9:12) 
And with difficulty we strive, and we labor, and we have evil things in the present.

(Wisdom 9:13) 
For who knows what is in heaven, except the one who comes down from heaven?

(Wisdom 9:14) 
And who has known Your counsel, unless You have given wisdom, and sent Your Holy Spirit from on high?

(Wisdom 9:15) 
And thus the paths of those on earth were set right, and they learned those things that please You, and by wisdom they were saved.

(Wisdom 9:16) 
For through this have those pleased You been healed, O Lord, from the beginning.

(Wisdom 9:17) 
For even if the son who comes to You is small, he will have wisdom with You, and will not despise You.

(Wisdom 9:18) 
For God knows this, and dwells with wisdom, and will be ruled by wisdom.

(Wisdom 10:1) 
Wisdom protected the just, even when the wicked were being killed, and the just escaped from death.

(Wisdom 10:2) 
Wisdom escapes the wrath of the wicked and reveals the way of the just, even within their own errors.

(Wisdom 10:3) 
She received the just who fled to her, and she did not abandon them during their trials, but delivered them from the snares of the wicked.

(Wisdom 10:4) 
And she led them along the right path and revealed to them the kingdom of God, giving them the knowledge of the holy ones. And she kept them safe during difficult times.

(Wisdom 10:5) 
She delivered the just from their wickedness and did not reject them, but turned away from the wicked when the judgment of the just came.

(Wisdom 10:6) 
And the race of the wicked entered into wrath, who were together with the sorrowing.

(Wisdom 10:7) 
When the multitude of the dead was being taken away, the justice of the Lord did not forget them.

(Wisdom 10:8) 
But giving recompense to the wicked nations and taking vengeance.

(Wisdom 10:9) 
For then, the mortals saw that they were suffering for their sins and, when they were condemned to vanity, they saw that they had suffered in vain.

(Wisdom 10:10) 
For, just as children fleeing to the light and being cast off by death, so these also perished, and the just became participants in the suffering of death.

(Wisdom 10:11) 
And in this thing, when they were, they saw and knew that the just were those whom God had rejected.

(Wisdom 10:12) 
Because of this, they mocked their suffering and, in the pain of their death, despised them, as to what their end would be.

(Wisdom 10:13) 
Then they will come to their judgment, and they will be terrified by fear, and they will marvel at the salvation of the unjust.

(Wisdom 10:14) 
For those who did not believe in God before, but turned away from God, those who hated wisdom and despised her reproofs.

(Wisdom 10:15) 
These, when they were, did not find the ways of justice and did not look upon the light of justice, nor did they receive the splendor of the sun's rays.

(Wisdom 10:16) 
They walked along the wicked way and the paths of destruction, and they did not know the way of the Lord.

(Wisdom 10:17) 
For what did pride profit them? Or what did the boast of riches bring to them?

(Wisdom 10:18) 
All those things passed away like a shadow, and like a messenger hastening.

(Wisdom 10:19) 
And like a ship passing through the sea, whose trace could not be found, nor the path of the keel in the waves.

(Wisdom 10:20) 
Or like a bird flying through the air, for which there is no sign of its passing, but only the air that has been struck and the light, easy movement of wings, afterwards no sign of its path is found.

(Wisdom 10:21) 
Or like an arrow shot at a target, which divided the air and then immediately cut it again, and no trace of its passage could be found.

(Wisdom 10:22) 
So also we, when born, immediately ceased and could show no sign of virtue, but we have been consumed in our wickedness.

(Wisdom 11:1) 
Lord, listen to my plea. Hear my prayer.

(Wisdom 11:2) 
Don't bring your servant to judgment. No one alive can be found perfect in your sight.

(Wisdom 11:3) 
The enemy has pursued my soul and brought my life down to the dirt.

(Wisdom 11:4) 
He has put me in darkness like the dead, and my spirit is exhausted. My heart is deeply troubled.

(Wisdom 11:5) 
I remember the days of old; I reflect on everything you have done, and I meditate on the works of your hands.

(Wisdom 11:6) 
I stretch out my hands to you, my soul is like dry land.

(Wisdom 11:7) 
Answer me quickly, Lord; my spirit fails. Don't turn away your face from me, or I'll be like those who descend into the pit.

(Wisdom 11:8) 
Let me hear of your mercy in the morning, for I trust in you. Make known to me the way I should walk, because I lift up my soul to you.

(Wisdom 11:9) 
Rescue me from my enemies, Lord; I flee to you for refuge.

(Wisdom 11:10) 
Teach me to do your will, for you are my God. May your good Spirit guide me on a straight path.

(Wisdom 11:11) 
For your name's sake, Lord, revive me in your righteousness. Bring my soul out of trouble.

(Wisdom 11:12) 
And in your mercy, destroy my enemies and destroy all those who afflict my soul, because I am your servant.

(Wisdom 12:1) 
Your judgments are magnificent, and no one can fully explain what you say.

(Wisdom 12:2) 
And so those who haven't learned have gone astray. The simpleminded have thought unjust things were just, and have considered evil things to be good.

(Wisdom 12:3) 
In this, the good and the evil are the same. Each will be judged on his own life.

(Wisdom 12:4) 
They are wrong in the things they judge, for they don't know God, and they wish to call evil, sin, and unrighteousness just.

(Wisdom 12:5) 
Because of this, you, O Lord, will justly punish the wicked, with the evils they have chosen.

(Wisdom 12:6) 
For your power has not escaped you. You combine justice with your strength.

(Wisdom 12:7) 
For if you judge the just to be powerful, it is not because you think they aren’t strong, or that you don’t care, since you have all power.

(Wisdom 12:8) 
Showing your power to the ones who judge justly. When you are scorned, show your power to those who do not believe in your perfection.

(Wisdom 12:9) 
But you, Lord of power, judge justly and guide us with clemency.

(Wisdom 12:10) 
Because when you want to, you can. For you know the power of your strength.

(Wisdom 12:11) 
And you show your justice to those who do not believe that you are full of strength, and their wickedness to those who have made you out to be ignorant.

(Wisdom 12:12) 
Because after this, when they are ignorant, they will be punished and will grieve.

(Wisdom 12:13) 
Because of this, you have given torment to those who have lived wickedly. You have given the lives that displease you.

(Wisdom 12:14) 
They detested iniquity and the wicked kinds of lives.

(Wisdom 12:15) 
The proof of this is still present because they judged in what they suffered, and they were vindicated in what displeased them.

(Wisdom 12:16) 
And because of this, the wicked, with torment, judged, thinking they were from you, who unjustly did evil things.

(Wisdom 12:17) 
For in the things they sinned in, which they thought were good, they received the punishment of iniquity.

(Wisdom 12:18) 
But others, even the just, they thought weren't worthy of understanding and did not follow their ways. They looked down on their wickedness.

(Wisdom 12:19) 
For they scorned the wicked, and were justly condemned.

(Wisdom 12:20) 
To others, they didn't give offerings, and their works were not known.

(Wisdom 12:21) 
For they, whose works were evil, lost them, and were confused in their wickedness.

(Wisdom 12:22) 
And after this, those who perished felt what they had done with sorrow and are now confused.

(Wisdom 12:23) 
For your judgment is just.

(Wisdom 12:24) 
This is what cast down the wicked: because they scorned the good things they did, and they did not believe in your judgments.

(Wisdom 12:25) 
And because of this, their end is terrible, and their grief is without end.

(Wisdom 13:1) 
Indeed, all people who do not know God are foolish. Although they see all the good that exists, they can not understand the One who is. They have not recognized the artisan, even by considering the work of creation.

(Wisdom 13:2) 
Instead, they worshiped fire, the wind, the swift air, the circle of stars, the violent water, or the sun and the moon, which they considered to be the rulers of the universe.

(Wisdom 13:3) 
If, because they were delighted by such things, they considered them gods, then let them know that there are things far more beautiful than those. The Lord, who created them, is also the Master of all creation.

(Wisdom 13:4) 
If they were astonished by the things they made, because of their power and effect, then let them understand that the One who created them is even more powerful.

(Wisdom 13:5) 
They could have known the One who is by means of these things, for they are evident, and they should have seen Him through the creation.

(Wisdom 13:6) 
However, they are not excusable for this. If they were capable of knowing the world well enough to judge it, how did they not more easily find the Lord of those things?

(Wisdom 13:7) 
They are wretched, and their hope is in the dead. They say that the gods are things made by human hands: gold, silver, crafted statues of animals, useless stone—the work of human hands.

(Wisdom 13:8) 
If they live with such things, then they consider such things good, and place their hope in those things which are dead.

(Wisdom 13:9) 
They are evil because they hope in these things, and they become bad. They have not seen the ways of justice, nor have they entered the paths of righteousness.

(Wisdom 13:10) 
They have not learned justice, nor have they come to know what is good. They have considered the work of their hands to be God, but it is perverse.

(Wisdom 13:11) 
Because of this, mockery will come upon them on the day of judgment.

(Wisdom 13:12) 
It is better not to exist than to exist and commit impiety. It is better to not know God than to not know the life of one who does not know Him.

(Wisdom 13:13) 
Those who seek God, will find Him, and they will not abandon Him.

(Wisdom 13:14) 
He did not reveal to them, nor did He show them, what is evil, so that they would know what is good, and what things oppose them, and through which they will receive even more light.

(Wisdom 13:15) 
For all of their works are more beautiful in this world than their hope, as are the people themselves, and the things they desire.

(Wisdom 13:16) 
Even those who exist in this world will die, and that is why these things are vanity. These are their works, always with them, in which they always hope.

(Wisdom 13:17) 
They will obtain mercy and grace because they have abstained from these things.

(Wisdom 14:1) 
It is vanity to have idols, and the making of them is an act of destruction. The beginning of a spiritual death, and the true source of life's corruption.

(Wisdom 14:2) 
These idols are not real, and they will not last. Therefore, a sudden judgment will come upon all who trust in them.

(Wisdom 14:3) 
For what is the point of a father, working through the pain of his labor, shaping an idol without a soul, a worthless image?

(Wisdom 14:4) 
But the works of such men are dead, and they themselves, together with those they make—they are all dead together.

(Wisdom 14:5) 
They stray together, and those who praise these idols hope in the dead.

(Wisdom 14:6) 
Therefore, because they deserve it, these things happen to them. They also say, “These idols are not good, nor are they alive, for they cannot see us, nor can they hear us, nor can they think, nor can they move.

(Wisdom 14:7) 
They say, “We are the masters of our own fates.

(Wisdom 14:8) 
They say, “We are the masters of our own fates. Each man can live his life.”

(Wisdom 14:9) 
Their idols are but wind. And such wicked men call these idols gods.

(Wisdom 14:10) 
Those who sail on ships across the sea, and who labor in storms, calling out to wood, call out to wooden idols.

(Wisdom 14:11) 
This is how evil began, and why men go astray, and why there is discord.

(Wisdom 14:12) 
For what is it? That which they have made is not good, and that which they have said is nothing.

(Wisdom 14:13) 
For God hates the ungodly, and the ungodliness of men is similarly abominable to Him.

(Wisdom 14:14) 
Therefore, the ungodly will be abominable, and the ungodliness of the ungodly will be as well.

(Wisdom 14:15) 
Therefore, the works of the wicked are a punishment for them.

(Wisdom 14:16) 
Because the wicked have thought that God is evil, and have done wicked deeds, and are worthy of death, they say: “There is no life.” And they thought the wicked should be God.

(Wisdom 14:17) 
Those who do such things are worthy to be punished, and those who think there is no God, are not.

(Wisdom 14:18) 
For the wicked do wicked deeds, speak impious words, and live wicked lives—and these things will cause harm to men.

(Wisdom 14:19) 
Because they thought fire was God, and they saw it die for a while, and then when the wind blew, it would burn up: and they thought that only fire was the Lord of all things.

(Wisdom 14:20) 
They considered fire, wind, the swift spirit of the air, the circle of the stars, raging water, the sun, and the moon to be the rulers of the world.

(Wisdom 14:21) 
If they loved their beauty, they thought they were gods: those who they saw working.

(Wisdom 14:22) 
If they loved these, they should have known that these are far better: for their creator is beauty itself, and that which is created is found in what is being worked: and what they see is not in those who do the working.

(Wisdom 14:23) 
But they are not excused: because they do not know God by these things, and in those who do the working, they have not considered who He is.

(Wisdom 14:24) 
Perhaps those who wander a little are excused: for they desired God, and wanted to find Him, they did not err in the things they see.

(Wisdom 14:25) 
But neither do these men know, because they seek, investigate, and err in His works, when searching for God.

(Wisdom 14:26) 
For, like lovers, they see the works and they themselves do not believe, because those things which they see neither are, nor exist. If they work, so does their spirit.

(Wisdom 15:1) 
Truly, all men are fools who lack the knowledge of God, and who, from visible goods, were not able to understand Him Who is, nor by their works did they recognize Who He was.

(Wisdom 15:2) 
Instead, they have considered fire, wind, the swift air, the circle of stars, excessive water, or the sun and moon, the rulers of the world, as gods.

(Wisdom 15:3) 
If they, delighted by their beauty, thought them gods, let them know that these things are much more beautiful than those things. For their splendor, their beauty, their course, and their movement are in the control of God.

(Wisdom 15:4) 
But even they are not worthy of forgiveness. For if they were able to know so much that they could estimate the age of the world, how did they not more easily find its Lord?

(Wisdom 15:5) 
But even they are excusable in this. For perhaps, though wandering, they seek God, and desire to find Him.

(Wisdom 15:6) 
For conversing with His works, they investigate and are deceived by appearance, because they seem good. But again, they are not worthy of forgiveness.

(Wisdom 15:7) 
For if they had so much knowledge that they could examine the world, how did they not more quickly find its Lord?

(Wisdom 15:8) 
But their life is miserable, and their hope is among the dead, those who place their hope in things made by human hands, gold, silver, skillfully made, and the likeness of beasts, or a useless stone from an ancient work.

(Wisdom 15:9) 
Or perhaps a woodworker has carved wood, polished it carefully, and then cast it aside for use. But his labor is for the fullness of life, and the craftsman is in his work.

(Wisdom 15:10) 
But miserable is he who places hope in the dead and calls dead things gods; for he has seen neither the living, nor the holy, nor the true.

(Wisdom 15:11) 
For they act unjustly at the same time, and their works, their pains, and their thoughts are in vain. Because an idol statue is the beginning of fornication, and their invention is the corruption of life.

(Wisdom 15:12) 
For they were not from the beginning, nor will they be forever. Because that vanity is a useless emptiness and iniquity.

(Wisdom 15:13) 
For death entered the world through ambition, and those who are a part of it experience it.

(Wisdom 15:14) 
For acting unjustly, they thought nothing of it, not realizing that in the very things in which they have done evil, they are also punished.

(Wisdom 15:15) 
For the just thought life was short, and they departed and did not hear their own voice; but those who are not just thought, and not knowing the mysteries of God, did not hope for the reward of justice, nor did they judge the prize of an immaculate soul.

(Wisdom 15:16) 
Because God created man to be inexhaustible, and He made him in the image of His own likeness.

(Wisdom 15:17) 
But through the devil's envy, death entered the world.

(Wisdom 15:18) 
And those who are a part of it experience it.

(Wisdom 16:1) 
A wonderful meal appeared for the righteous and holy ones who were in exile.

(Wisdom 16:2) 
So that, after they had suffered adversity and their enemies were punished, they could taste the sweetness of life.

(Wisdom 16:3) 
For that which the animals, who were not supposed to know the ways of men, were mocking.

(Wisdom 16:4) 
They were sent as a punishment, but not in anger. They were punished briefly, and were then found worthy of blessings.

(Wisdom 16:5) 
For those who feared were in servitude. Those who did not fear were tormented.

(Wisdom 16:6) 
Those who were in darkness, and those who were in ignorance, were both in darkness.

(Wisdom 16:7) 
For as those who are asleep, so too were these who slept in a terrible slumber.

(Wisdom 16:8) 
But God did not destroy those people. He warned the wandering, and, remembering His virtues, warned them.

(Wisdom 16:9) 
For through their suffering, He showed Himself to them for salvation. And, being awake, they knew that He, God, was with them at that moment.

(Wisdom 16:10) 
For the sake of the people who came before them, they were killed by animals.

(Wisdom 16:11) 
They were led astray by their wicked and perverse thoughts, and thought those very things that they imagined to be gods.

(Wisdom 16:12) 
They ended in unjust suffering. And the harm was done through them who are.

(Wisdom 16:13) 
For fire or wild beasts that overcame them were punishments for them, and for their wicked deeds.

(Wisdom 16:14) 
On the contrary, nothing happened against them. They themselves are the ones who have done everything.

(Wisdom 16:15) 
For to the just, not only to them, but also to these others, was given night, and they knowing those things which they have suffered, themselves feared not even death.

(Wisdom 16:16) 
And the son of those who were, came quickly. And, seeing, they saw, and knowing, they knew what justice has suffered.

(Wisdom 16:17) 
Afterwards, when the unjust had died, there was a scourge and a plague to them, and for the righteous, glory.

(Wisdom 16:18) 
For in a short time they were tormented, and dying, they saw their works and knew what they had suffered.

(Wisdom 16:19) 
And as they perished, the just had glory. But for them, in short, who were made as they were, with them, to condemnation.

(Wisdom 16:20) 
And therefore they saw both this, and that, and for that time, and when they were in conflict, they saw, and they heard what it is.

(Wisdom 16:21) 
For they were once cast down, and they did not ignore who they were, and who were for them, and who were for death.

(Wisdom 16:22) 
For, that which they had once wandered, and seeing, they did not believe, now, when they suffered, and knowing, they repented for themselves.

(Wisdom 16:23) 
And, that through which they were judged, those things, when they perished, did not die.

(Wisdom 16:24) 
For, when the just were in conflict, they saw all things, and afterwards, in repentance, they saw; and they did not die.

(Wisdom 16:25) 
But, as they perished, so did they perish in them.

(Wisdom 17:1) 
But those who are spiritually dead don’t know God, and they can’t find Him by looking at good things, and they don’t recognize the craftsman by his work.

(Wisdom 17:2) 
Instead, they think that fire, or wind, or fast-moving air, or the stars’ motion, or rushing water, or the sun and moon, which govern the world, are gods.

(Wisdom 17:3) 
If they were charmed by their appearance, they should know that these things are much better than they seem: the creator of them made these very things.

(Wisdom 17:4) 
If they were amazed by their strength and by how they work, let them understand from these things that whoever made them is stronger than they are:

(Wisdom 17:5) 
because by how great and well-made the creation is, they can understand the creator. So, too, His power is known through these things.

(Wisdom 17:6) 
But still, they have no excuse: if they were able to know so much that they could investigate the world, why did they not find the Lord more quickly?

(Wisdom 17:7) 
But woe to them, and to their works: because they thought that the dead were gods, and also idols, and gold, and silver—man-made objects, and images of animals, or a useless stone from the hands of someone long ago.

(Wisdom 17:8) 
Therefore, if they were pleased with what they made, they thought these things were gods: and what excuse will they give now, because they put their hope in these things?

(Wisdom 17:9) 
For they have power over them in both life and death, and they will be punished on the day when they are judged.

(Wisdom 17:10) 
They are miserable, and they hate His holy ones, and they hate the impious, and they hate His things, and the good, and those who hate life, and those who do evil.

(Wisdom 17:11) 
Their works are evil, and their lives are evil: and they think that God is not with them: and they commit iniquity, and they are perverted by their unjust plans.

(Wisdom 17:12) 
There is a different power of evil, and a different lie, and a different life than they think, and for those who made these things, there is an evil cause, so that their sin will follow them through fire, or through water.

(Wisdom 17:13) 
Because what they do to God, and their sins, pursue them in anger, as they themselves are.

(Wisdom 17:14) 
This is what they think: that if they do well, they will reign, and they will exist, and be glorious. For this reason they are also destructive to themselves.

(Wisdom 17:15) 
Therefore they were angry at the just, and for their sin they killed those who were holy and just in life. Their blood is now avenged.

(Wisdom 17:16) 
But they, being angry, were worth nothing, and they knew nothing, being angry at those who were better than them.

(Wisdom 17:17) 
For this reason they died, and they thought that life was for them, and they were saddened when they died: because even they who died were unjust, and they judged iniquity.

(Wisdom 17:18) 
And since God did not always dissimulate, His power did not dissimulate either. Because this man, who is without God, killed the just, and the just and the impious will perish alike.

(Wisdom 17:19) 
For now the works of the impious are like the wind, and like a ship on water without a rudder, which passes, and the path is unknown after it. And like a bird flying through the air, no trace of the journey is found, and like an arrow shot at a target.

(Wisdom 17:20) 
And like an arrow striking through the air, and the air is immediately divided, and its passing is not known. So also we are born for a short time, and immediately we vanish: and we will not be able to show the trace of a good work: but we will be consumed in malice.

(Wisdom 18:1) 
Remembering His covenant, the Lord sent redeemers to rescue them from the pagan nations.

(Wisdom 18:2) 
He sent holy men: Moses and his brother Aaron. Through them, He gave His people a sense of holiness.

(Wisdom 18:3) 
He gave them His testament so they would be sanctified, and the Law so they could have life.

(Wisdom 18:4) 
He revealed His just judgements, and the works that His hands had made.

(Wisdom 18:5) 
Remembering the covenant, He displayed the wonders of His works.

(Wisdom 18:6) 
He glorified them in holiness and kept them in righteousness.

(Wisdom 18:7) 
He heard their prayers from His holy place.

(Wisdom 18:8) 
He was merciful to them in their days of tribulation and rescued them.

(Wisdom 18:9) 
He struck the Egyptians with plagues that were great and terrifying.

(Wisdom 18:10) 
He showed the power of His hands.

(Wisdom 18:11) 
He gave them a great plague to reveal their wickedness, and He destroyed their enemies.

(Wisdom 18:12) 
He gave His holy ones righteousness and a law without deceit.

(Wisdom 18:13) 
He remembered His covenant and the righteousness of His works.

(Wisdom 18:14) 
He gave them the inheritance of the nations, and the works of the just.

(Wisdom 18:15) 
Both the work of the Lord's hands, and the works of the just, are His.

(Wisdom 18:16) 
He broke the power of their enemies, and gave them the inheritance of the strong.

(Wisdom 18:17) 
So that they would glorify His holy name and offer God their praises.

(Wisdom 18:18) 
He rooted out the impious peoples before them.

(Wisdom 18:19) 
So they would praise His works with justice, and glorify His wonders.

(Wisdom 18:20) 
And they will praise Him with the glory of His power, and they will proclaim the greatness of His works.

(Wisdom 18:21) 
This is the end for those who have acted justly, so they may be with Him.

(Wisdom 18:22) 
And with their works, they enter the glory of the saints.

(Wisdom 19:1) 
The nations who opposed Your commandments, Lord, have done the opposite of what is right.

(Wisdom 19:2) 
Your children knew that the wicked are lost,

(Wisdom 19:3) 
and the wicked perished in the open for all of their enemies to see.

(Wisdom 19:4) 
The Gentiles saw the idols,

(Wisdom 19:5) 
which do not even exist, and they thought the idols were gods.

(Wisdom 19:6) 
Therefore, the Gentiles will be judged by the true judge, as will the dead idols.

(Wisdom 19:7) 
So when the time came for punishment, the Lord visited them and found them worthy of their punishment.

(Wisdom 19:8) 
For the Gentiles were using wicked deeds,

(Wisdom 19:9) 
to do even more foolish things,

(Wisdom 19:10) 
because the Gentiles lacked rational thought.

(Wisdom 19:11) 
They sacrificed their own children to demons,

(Wisdom 19:12) 
and they offered these children to those who do not exist, to idols.

(Wisdom 19:13) 
They murdered their own children,

(Wisdom 19:14) 
and they would murder those who were sacrifices,

(Wisdom 19:15) 
using poison that was wicked, and they were destroyed.

(Wisdom 19:16) 
And because of this, the deception that was created by them could no longer remain hidden.

(Wisdom 19:17) 
For those wicked people, who were like people wandering around in a dream,

(Wisdom 19:18) 
imagined they were actually flying when dreaming.

(Wisdom 19:19) 
The Gentiles died because of these delusions, which they trusted in.

(Wisdom 19:20) 
For they thought things that did not exist were gods.

(Wisdom 19:21) 
They swore false oaths, and did evil things with great anger,

(Wisdom 19:22) 
and because of this, they deserved to be destroyed.

(Wisdom 19:23) 
The false gods they swore by did not have any power, instead, the sin itself deserved punishment.

(Wisdom 19:24) 
They would swear oaths that contained injustice, and would be destroyed by these oaths.