(Amos 1:1) 
These are the words of Amos, who was a shepherd from Tekoa. He saw visions about Jerusalem during the reign of King Uzziah of Judah and during the reign of Jeroboam, son of Joash, king of Israel. This happened two years before the earthquake.

(Amos 1:2) 
Amos said: “The Lord will roar from Zion, and He will make His voice heard from Jerusalem, so the beautiful pastures will mourn, and the top of Mount Carmel will dry up.”

(Amos 1:3) 
The Lord says: “For the three transgressions of Damascus and for the four, I will not relent; because they have threshed Gilead with iron sledges.

(Amos 1:4) 
“So I will send a fire upon the house of Hazael, and it shall devour the strongholds of Ben-hadad.

(Amos 1:5) 
“I will break the gate of Damascus. And I will destroy the one who rules from the valley of Aven, the one who holds the scepter from the house of Eden. The people of Aram will be exiled, along with the remnant of the Israelites,” says the Lord.

(Amos 1:6) 
The Lord says: “For the three transgressions of Gaza and for the four, I will not relent; because they took captives and deported them to Edom.”

(Amos 1:7) 
“So I will send a fire upon the wall of Gaza, and it will consume its fortresses.

(Amos 1:8) 
“I will destroy the one who rules from Ashdod, and the one who holds the scepter from Ashkelon. I will turn my hand against Ekron, and the remnant of the Philistines will perish,” says the Lord God.

(Amos 1:9) 
The Lord says: “For the three transgressions of Tyre and for the four, I will not relent; because they delivered up an entire population of captives to Edom.

(Amos 1:10) 
“So I will send a fire upon the wall of Tyre, and it shall devour its fortresses.

(Amos 1:11) 
The Lord says: “For the three transgressions of Edom and for the four, I will not relent; because he pursued his brother with the sword and cast off all pity, and his anger tore at all that was good, and he kept his wrath forever.

(Amos 1:12) 
“So I will send a fire upon Teman, and it shall devour the fortresses of Bozrah.

(Amos 1:13) 
The Lord says: “For the three transgressions of the Ammonites and for the four, I will not relent; because they have ripped open the pregnant women of Gilead, that they might enlarge their border.

(Amos 1:14) 
“So I will kindle a fire upon the wall of Rabbah, and it shall devour its fortresses, with shouting on the day of battle, with a storm on the day of the tempest.

(Amos 1:15) 
“And their king will go into exile, along with his princes,” says the Lord.

(Amos 2:1) 
The Lord says this: "Moab has committed three crimes, and I will not turn away from punishing them, for they have desecrated the bones of the king of Edom by burning them to ashes.

(Amos 2:2) 
So, I will send fire against Moab that will consume its fortresses, and Moab will die in battle, with the shouts and blare of the war horn.

(Amos 2:3) 
I will destroy their leaders, and I will kill their rulers with them, says the Lord.

(Amos 2:4) 
The Lord says: "Judah has committed three crimes, and I will not turn away from punishing them, because they have rejected the law of the Lord, and have not kept His commandments. Their idols have deceived them, and they followed the same sinful paths as their ancestors.

(Amos 2:5) 
So I will send fire against Judah, and it will consume the fortresses of Jerusalem.

(Amos 2:6) 
The Lord says: "Israel has committed three crimes, and I will not turn away from punishing them, for they have sold the innocent for silver, and the poor for a pair of shoes. They trample the heads of the poor into the dust of the earth.

(Amos 2:7) 
They oppress the poor, and they turn away from the needs of the humble. Fathers and sons exploit young women, which desecrates My holy Name.

(Amos 2:8) 
They take pledges of clothing, and they drink the wine of the condemned in the house of their God.

(Amos 2:9) 
I destroyed the Amorites before them, although they were as tall as the cedars and as strong as the oaks.

(Amos 2:10) 
I destroyed their fruit above, and their roots below.

(Amos 2:11) 
I brought you out of the land of Egypt, and I led you through the desert for forty years, so that you might possess the land of the Amorites.

(Amos 2:12) 
I raised up prophets from among your own sons, and I raised up Nazarites from among your young men. Isn't that the truth, children of Israel? says the Lord.

(Amos 2:13) 
But you made the Nazarites drink wine, and you commanded your prophets, saying, "Do not prophesy."

(Amos 2:14) 
I will press you down, as a cart presses down the sheaves of grain after the harvest. No swift runner will escape, the strong will not retain their strength, and the brave will not save their lives.

(Amos 2:15) 
The archer will not stand his ground, the swift of foot will not escape, and the horseman will not save his life.

(Amos 2:16) 
On that day, even the bravest of warriors will flee in terror, says the Lord. I will multiply those who are wicked.

(Amos 3:1) 
Hear this word which I speak against you, children of Israel, against the entire family I brought out of the land of Egypt, saying:

(Amos 3:2) 
“I have known only you of all the families of the earth. Therefore, I will visit against you all your iniquities.”

(Amos 3:3) 
If two walk together, unless they have agreed?

(Amos 3:4) 
Will a lion roar in the forest if it doesn't have prey? Will a young lion give its cry in its den if it has captured nothing?

(Amos 3:5) 
Does a bird fall into a snare on the earth without cause? Is the snare taken up from the earth before it has caught something?

(Amos 3:6) 
If a trumpet sounds in a city, will the people not be afraid? If there is evil in a city, hasn't the Lord done it?

(Amos 3:7) 
Indeed, the Lord God does nothing unless He reveals His secret to His servants, the prophets.

(Amos 3:8) 
A lion roars, who will not fear? The Lord God has spoken; who will not prophesy?

(Amos 3:9) 
Proclaim this against the house of Jacob and to all the remaining members of the house of Israel: You who carry on, you who are like the high places, and you who practice iniquity.

(Amos 3:10) 
You hate the one who reproves in the gate, and you detest the one who speaks perfectly.

(Amos 3:11) 
Therefore, because you trample on the poor, and take a tribute of grain from them, you have built houses of squared stones, but you will not live in them; you have planted precious vineyards, but you will not drink wine from them.

(Amos 3:12) 
For I know your many crimes and your strong sins: hating the just, taking a bribe, and oppressing the poor in the gate.

(Amos 3:13) 
Therefore, the wise man will keep silent at that time, because it is a bad time.

(Amos 3:14) 
Seek good and not evil, that you may live; and so the Lord God of hosts will be with you, as you have said.

(Amos 3:15) 
Hate evil and love good, and establish judgment in the gate; perhaps the Lord God of hosts will have mercy on the remnant of Joseph.

(Amos 3:16) 
Therefore, the Lord God of hosts, the Lord, says this: There will be wailing in the streets, and in all the roads they will say, “Woe, woe!” They will call the farmer to mourning, and those who know how to wail to lament.

(Amos 3:17) 
And there will be wailing in all the vineyards, because I will pass through the midst of you, says the Lord.

(Amos 3:18) 
Woe to you who desire the day of the Lord! Why is this to you? The day of the Lord is darkness and not light.

(Amos 3:19) 
It is like a man who flees from a lion, and a bear meets him; and he goes into a house and rests his hand on the wall, and a serpent strikes him.

(Amos 3:20) 
Surely the day of the Lord will be darkness and not light? It will be gloom and not splendor in it?

(Amos 3:21) 
I hate and I have rejected your festivals; and I will not smell your assemblies.

(Amos 3:22) 
Because if you offer me holocausts and your gifts, I will not receive them, and I will not look upon the peace offerings of your fat beasts.

(Amos 3:23) 
Take away from me the sound of your songs; I will not hear the song of your psaltery.

(Amos 3:24) 
But let judgment flow like water, and justice like a mighty torrent.

(Amos 3:25) 
Did you offer victims and sacrifices to me in the desert for forty years, house of Israel?

(Amos 3:26) 
And you carried the tabernacle of your Moloch and the star of your god, which you made for yourselves.

(Amos 3:27) 
And I will make you go into exile beyond Damascus, says the Lord, whose name is the God of hosts.

(Amos 4:1) 
Listen to this, you wealthy women of Samaria, who oppress the poor, and crush the needy, who say to your husbands, “Bring us wine!”

(Amos 4:2) 
The Lord swears by His holiness, “Behold, the days are coming upon you, when they shall take you away with hooks, and what is left of you with fishhooks.”

(Amos 4:3) 
You shall go out through breaches in the walls, each one straight ahead, and you will be cast into the Hermon mountain,” says the Lord.

(Amos 4:4) 
Go to Bethel and sin; go to Gilgal and multiply transgression! Offer your sacrifices every morning, and your tithes every three days.

(Amos 4:5) 
Offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving, and proclaim it, and announce the offerings of freewill. For this is what you love, children of Israel!” says the Lord God.

(Amos 4:6) 
I gave you also cleanness of teeth in all your cities, and lack of bread in all your places, and yet you have not returned to Me,” says the Lord.

(Amos 4:7) 
And I also withheld the rain from you when there were still three months to the harvest. I caused it to rain on one city, and caused it not to rain on another city. One part was rained upon, and the part on which it did not rain withered.

(Amos 4:8) 
So two or three cities wandered to one city to drink water, and were not satisfied, and yet you have not returned to Me,” says the Lord.

(Amos 4:9) 
I smote you with a burning wind and blight. Your gardens and your vineyards and your olive orchards the locust consumed, and yet you have not returned to Me,” says the Lord.

(Amos 4:10) 
I sent among you pestilence after the manner of Egypt. I slew your young men with the sword, along with your captured horses, and I made the stench of your camps come up to your nostrils, and yet you have not returned to Me,” says the Lord.

(Amos 4:11) 
I overthrew some of you, as God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, and you were like a brand plucked from the burning, and yet you have not returned to Me,” says the Lord.

(Amos 4:12) 
Therefore, I will do this to you, O Israel; and because I will do this to you, prepare to meet your God, O Israel.

(Amos 4:13) 
For behold, He who forms the mountains, and creates the wind, and declares to man what his thoughts are, who makes the morning darkness, and treads on the heights of the earth—the Lord, the God of hosts, is His name.

(Amos 5:1) 
Hear this word, because I am mourning over you, people of Israel.

(Amos 5:2) 
Israel has fallen and will not rise again.

(Amos 5:3) 
Because of this, God says, “The city that once provided a thousand soldiers will have only a hundred left. And the city that had a hundred soldiers will have only ten left, O people of Israel.”

(Amos 5:4) 
For God says to the people of Israel, “Seek Me, and you will live.

(Amos 5:5) 
Don’t go to Bethel. Don’t enter Gilgal, nor travel to Beersheba. Gilgal will become a ruin, and Bethel will be stripped of glory.

(Amos 5:6) 
Seek God so that you may live, or else He will strike the house of Joseph like a fire, and it will consume everything, and there will be no one to extinguish it in Bethel.

(Amos 5:7) 
You change the meaning of justice, making it bitter like wormwood, and you throw righteousness to the ground,

(Amos 5:8) 
You make the stars and the constellations, and you turn the shadow of death into morning, and the day into a dark night. You call for the waters of the sea, and pour them out over the surface of the earth.

(Amos 5:9) 
You bring ruin on the strong, and ruin will come upon the mighty.

(Amos 5:10) 
You hate those who rebuke evil at the gate, and you despise those who speak the truth.

(Amos 5:11) 
Because you trample the poor, and collect grain from them, you have built houses of stone, but you will not live in them; you have planted vineyards, but you will not drink their wine.

(Amos 5:12) 
For I know your many sins and the strength of your transgressions: you are enemies of the righteous, taking bribes, and oppressing the poor at the gate.

(Amos 5:13) 
So at this time, the wise will be silent because it is an evil time.

(Amos 5:14) 
Seek good, not evil, so that you may live. Then God will be with you, just as you say He is.

(Amos 5:15) 
I hate and reject your feasts. I will not receive the scent of your solemn assemblies.

(Amos 5:16) 
Even if you offer Me burnt offerings and gifts, I will not accept them; nor will I look at the peace offerings of your fattened animals.

(Amos 5:17) 
Take away from Me the noise of your songs; I will not listen to the music of your harps.

(Amos 5:18) 
But let judgment flow like water, and justice like a mighty river.

(Amos 5:19) 
O people of Israel, did you offer sacrifices and offerings to Me in the desert for forty years?

(Amos 5:20) 
You carried the tent of your god Moloch and the image of your idols, the star of your god, which you made for yourselves.

(Amos 5:21) 
So I will send you into exile beyond Damascus, God says. God of Hosts is His name.

(Amos 5:22) 
Woe to those who are so confident in the mountain of Samaria, the strength of the head of the nations, to whom the people of Israel come.

(Amos 5:23) 
Go to Calneh and see it, and then go to Hamath the great, and then descend to Gath of the Philistines. Are these kingdoms better than yours? Is their territory wider than yours?

(Amos 5:24) 
You separate yourselves for the day of evil, and you come to the throne on the Sabbath days.

(Amos 5:25) 
You sleep on beds of ivory and lounge on your couches. You eat the lambs from the flock and the calves from the midst of the herd.

(Amos 5:26) 
You sing along with the sound of the instruments, and you think of yourselves as one great nation, eating the best parts of the calves.

(Amos 5:27) 
Therefore, now you will be the first to be led away as captives, and the gatherings of revelers will be taken away.

(Amos 6:1) 
Woe to those who live carelessly in Zion and think they are safe on the mountain of Samaria! You are the leaders of the most important families and clans, the men of renown, and you consider yourselves to be the leaders of Israel.

(Amos 6:2) 
Go to Calneh and see. Then go on from there to Hamath the great, and go down to Gath of the Philistines. See if these kingdoms are better than yours; see if their territory is greater than yours!

(Amos 6:3) 
You postpone the day of misfortune and cling to the ways of wickedness!

(Amos 6:4) 
You sleep on ivory beds and sprawl on your couches, you eat the best lambs from the flock and the finest calves from the stall;

(Amos 6:5) 
You sing idle songs to the music of the harp. You are conceited, as if you are David, inventing musical instruments.

(Amos 6:6) 
You drink wine by the bowlful, and you anoint yourselves with the finest oils, but you are not grieved over the destruction of Israel.

(Amos 6:7) 
Therefore, you will now be the first to be taken into exile. The revelry of the arrogant will end.

(Amos 6:8) 
The Lord God has sworn by his own power: “I detest the pride of Jacob and hate their palaces. I will deliver this city and all that is in it to the enemy.”

(Amos 6:9) 
Will not the land tremble for this? Will not everyone who lives there mourn? The land will be flooded like the Nile, rising and falling again like the river of Egypt.

(Amos 6:10) 
And in that day, says the Lord God: “Your songs of praise will be turned to lamentation. And the music will be silenced.

(Amos 6:11) 
Your loud and frivolous partying will become weeping.

(Amos 6:12) 
Do horses run on the rocky terrain? Does one plow there with oxen? You have turned justice into bitter poison, and the fruit of righteousness into wormwood.

(Amos 6:13) 
You are proud of what is worthless and you say, “Did we not seize power through our own strength?”

(Amos 6:14) 
But I am about to raise up against you, house of Israel, says the Lord, the God of hosts, and I will oppress you as a cart is crushed when it is overloaded with grain.

(Amos 6:15) 
The swift will lose their means of escape, the strong will lose their strength, and the mighty will not save themselves.

(Amos 6:16) 
Those who are skilled with a bow will not stand their ground, and the swift runner will not get away, and the horseman will not save himself.

(Amos 6:17) 
Even the most courageous soldier will flee naked on that day, says the Lord.

(Amos 7:1) 
These are the visions that Amos, a shepherd from Tekoa, saw about Israel, which he saw during the reigns of King Uzziah of Judah and King Jeroboam son of Joash of Israel, two years before the earthquake.

(Amos 7:2) 
And he said: "The Lord will roar from Zion, and He will give His voice from Jerusalem. The best pastures of the desert will mourn, and the field will wither because the whole earth is cursed, along with everyone who lives in it."

(Amos 7:3) 
This is what the Lord says: "For three crimes of Damascus, and for four, I will not relent, because they threshed Gilead with saws, threshing them with iron saws."

(Amos 7:4) 
I will send a fire into the house of Hazael, which will consume the foundations of Ben-hadad.

(Amos 7:5) 
I will break the bar of Damascus, and I will destroy the one who dwells in the field of pleasure, and the remnant of Syria will be exiled," says the Lord.

(Amos 7:6) 
This is what the Lord says: "For three crimes of Gaza, and for four, I will not relent, because they took captives and sold them completely to Edom."

(Amos 7:7) 
I will send fire into the walls of Gaza, and it will consume its foundations.

(Amos 7:8) 
I will destroy the one who lives in Ashdod, and the one who lives in Ashkelon, and I will turn My hand against Ekron. The remnant of the Philistines will perish," says the Lord God.

(Amos 7:9) 
This is what the Lord says: "For three crimes of Tyre, and for four, I will not relent, because they handed over captives completely to Edom."

(Amos 7:10) 
I will send fire into the walls of Tyre, and it will consume its foundations.

(Amos 7:11) 
This is what the Lord says: "For three crimes of Edom, and for four, I will not relent, because he pursued his brother with the sword, and broke every mercy, and in his fury he always tore him apart, and his anger kept itself forever."

(Amos 7:12) 
I will send fire into Teman, and it will consume the foundations of Bozrah.

(Amos 7:13) 
This is what the Lord says: "For three crimes of the Ammonites, and for four, I will not relent, because they ripped open the pregnant women of Gilead, in order to expand their territory."

(Amos 7:14) 
I will set fire to the walls of Rabbah, and it will consume its foundations, with a shout on the day of battle, and with a whirlwind on the day of destruction.

(Amos 7:15) 
Their king will go into captivity, along with his princes," says the Lord.

(Amos 8:1) 
This is what the Lord God showed to me, and behold, a basket of ripe fruits.

(Amos 8:2) 
And He said, “What do you see, Amos?” And I said, “A basket of ripe fruits.” Then the Lord said to me, “The end has come for My people Israel. I will not spare them any further.

(Amos 8:3) 
In that day, the songs of the Temple will turn to wailing, says the Lord God. Many corpses will be cast out, in the place where they are buried.

(Amos 8:4) 
Hear this, you who oppress the poor and destroy the needy of the land.

(Amos 8:5) 
You say, “When will the new moon be over, so that we may sell our grain? When will the Sabbath be over, so that we may open our storehouses? We want to make the measure smaller, and increase the price, and falsify the scales.

(Amos 8:6) 
We want to buy the poor with silver and the needy for a pair of sandals. We want to sell even the discarded wheat.

(Amos 8:7) 
The Lord has sworn by the pride of Jacob: I will never forget all their deeds.

(Amos 8:8) 
Will not the land tremble for this, and will not all who dwell in it mourn? The land will rise like the Nile, and it will surge up and then sink like the river of Egypt.

(Amos 8:9) 
And in that day, says the Lord God, I will make the sun go down at noon, and I will darken the land in broad daylight.

(Amos 8:10) 
I will turn your feasts into mourning, and all your songs into lamentation. I will bring sackcloth upon every back, and baldness upon every head. I will make it like mourning for an only son, and its end as a bitter day.

(Amos 8:11) 
Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will send a famine on the land—not a famine of bread or a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the Lord.

(Amos 8:12) 
They will wander from sea to sea, and from the north to the east; they will run to and fro, seeking the word of the Lord, but they will not find it.

(Amos 8:13) 
In that day the beautiful virgins and the young men will faint from thirst.

(Amos 8:14) 
Those who swear by the sin of Samaria, who say, “As your god lives, O Dan,” and, “As the way of Beersheba lives,” they will fall, and never rise again.

(Amos 9:1) 
I saw the Lord standing near the altar and He said, “Strike at the top of the temple! Shake the threshold of the doors. The temple will collapse above their heads, and I will kill the rest of them by the sword. No one will escape, and no one will survive who runs away.”

(Amos 9:2) 
“Even if they dig their way into hell, I will bring them out. If they climb all the way up to the sky, I will bring them down.

(Amos 9:3) 
“If they hide in the highest place on Mount Carmel, I will search for them and bring them out. If they hide from me on the ocean floor, I will command the sea serpent to bite them.

(Amos 9:4) 
“If they are led away into captivity by their enemies, I will command the sword and kill them. I will fix my eyes on them for bad, and not for good.”

(Amos 9:5) 
The Lord God of hosts touches the earth and makes it melt, and all who live on the earth mourn. The earth will rise up like the Nile River, and then it will recede like the Nile.

(Amos 9:6) 
God has built His high place in the sky, and He has set the foundation of the Temple on the earth. He calls up the waters of the sea and pours them over the face of the earth. The Lord is His name.

(Amos 9:7) 
“Are you not like the children of Ethiopia to me, children of Israel?” says the Lord. “Did I not bring Israel out of the land of Egypt, and the Philistines from Caphtor, and the Arameans from Kir?

(Amos 9:8) 
“I am the Lord. I see the sin in this kingdom, and I will destroy it from the face of the earth. But I will not destroy them completely,” says the Lord.

(Amos 9:9) 
“I will give the command, and I will shake them among all the nations, like you shake wheat in the barn. Not a grain will fall to the ground.

(Amos 9:10) 
“The sinners of my people will die by the sword, those who say, ‘Evil will not come near us.’”

(Amos 9:11) 
“On that day, I will reestablish the fallen kingdom of David. I will repair its breaks, rebuild its ruins, and restore it as it was in the ancient days,

(Amos 9:12) 
so they may take possession of what remains of Edom and of all the nations. These are the people who are called by my name,” says the Lord, who does these things.

(Amos 9:13) 
“The days are coming,” says the Lord, “when the one plowing will catch the reaper, and the one who treads grapes will catch the one who is scattering the seeds. The mountains will drip with sweetness, and all the hills will be filled with fruits.

(Amos 9:14) 
“I will restore the captivity of my people Israel. They will rebuild the ruined cities and live there. They will plant vineyards and drink their wine. They will make gardens and eat their fruit.

(Amos 9:15) 
“I will plant them on their own land. They will never again be uprooted from the land that I have given them,” says the Lord your God.