(Obadiah 1:1) 
The vision of Abdias. God the Lord says this about Edom: I, God, have a message to deliver to the nations. Rise up, let us fight against Edom!

(Obadiah 1:2) 
Behold, I have made you a small nation among the nations. You are held in contempt.

(Obadiah 1:3) 
Your pride of heart has deceived you, O Edom, who dwell in the high, stony places. You say in your heart: “Who can bring me down to the earth?”

(Obadiah 1:4) 
Even if you soar like an eagle, even if you make your nest among the stars, I will bring you down, says the Lord.

(Obadiah 1:5) 
If thieves were to come to you, if robbers by night, how would you hide? Would they not steal until they had enough? If grape-gatherers came to you, surely they would leave some grapes behind!

(Obadiah 1:6) 
How have the descendants of Esau been plundered! How have their hidden treasures been sought out! Even to the end of the nation they have expelled you.

(Obadiah 1:7) 
All your allies have deceived you, and have prevailed against you, those who eat with you have set a trap for you: there is no understanding in him.

(Obadiah 1:8) 
On that day, says the Lord, I will destroy the wise men from Edom and all understanding from the mountain of Esau.

(Obadiah 1:9) 
And your mighty men, Teman, will be struck with fear, and I will destroy all understanding from the mountain of Esau.

(Obadiah 1:10) 
Because of the violence done to your brother Jacob, shame will cover you, and you will be destroyed forever.

(Obadiah 1:11) 
On the day that you stood by, when strangers carried off Jacob’s wealth, when foreigners entered his gates, and cast lots for Jerusalem, you were like one of them.

(Obadiah 1:12) 
You should not have looked on the day of your brother’s misfortune, nor rejoiced over the children of Judah on the day of their destruction; nor should you have spoken proudly in the day of distress.

(Obadiah 1:13) 
You should not have entered the gate of my people on the day of their disaster, nor gloated over his misfortune on the day of his affliction, nor laid hands on his wealth on the day of his desolation.

(Obadiah 1:14) 
You should not have stood at the crossroads to cut off those who escaped, nor delivered over his survivors on the day of distress.

(Obadiah 1:15) 
For the day of the Lord is near against all the nations. As you have done, so shall it be done to you. Your actions will return upon your own head.

(Obadiah 1:16) 
For just as you have drunk on my holy mountain, so all the nations shall drink continually, and they shall drink and swallow, and be as though they had never been.

(Obadiah 1:17) 
But on Mount Zion there will be deliverance, and it will be holy; and the house of Jacob will possess those who possessed them.

(Obadiah 1:18) 
And the house of Jacob will be a fire, and the house of Joseph a flame, and the house of Esau like stubble, and they will burn them and consume them. There will be no survivor of the house of Esau, because the Lord has spoken.

(Obadiah 1:19) 
Those of the south will possess the mountain of Esau, and those of the plain, the Philistines. They will possess the territories of Ephraim and Samaria, and Benjamin will possess Gilead.

(Obadiah 1:20) 
And the exiles of this army of the children of Israel will possess what is in Canaan as far as Zarephath; and the exiles of Jerusalem, who are in Sepharad, will possess the cities of the south.

(Obadiah 1:21) 
And saviors will go up to Mount Zion to judge the mountain of Esau, and the kingdom will be the Lord’s.