(Jonah 1:1) 
The word of the Lord came to Jonah, the son of Amittai, saying:

(Jonah 1:2) 
“Go to the great city of Nineveh, and preach to it: because its wickedness has come up before me.”

(Jonah 1:3) 
But Jonah rose up to flee to Tarshish, away from the Lord. He went down to Joppa and found a ship going to Tarshish. He paid his fare and went down into it, to go with them to Tarshish, away from the Lord.

(Jonah 1:4) 
The Lord then sent a great wind on the sea, and there was a great storm on the sea, and the ship was in danger of breaking up.

(Jonah 1:5) 
The sailors were afraid, and each man cried to his god. They threw the cargo which was in the ship into the sea, to lighten the ship. But Jonah had gone down into the lowest parts of the ship, and was fast asleep.

(Jonah 1:6) 
The shipmaster came to him and said, “What are you doing sleeping? Get up, call upon your God, so that God may think of us and we do not die.”

(Jonah 1:7) 
Each of them said to his companion: “Come, let’s cast lots, to find out why this evil has come upon us.” So they cast lots, and the lot fell on Jonah.

(Jonah 1:8) 
Then they said to him, “Tell us why this evil has come upon us. What is your job, and where do you come from? What is your nation?”

(Jonah 1:9) 
He said to them, “I am a Hebrew, and I fear the God of the universe who made the sea and the dry land.”

(Jonah 1:10) 
Then the men were exceedingly afraid, and they said to him, “Why have you done this?” For the men knew that he was fleeing from the Lord, because he had told them.

(Jonah 1:11) 
They said to him, “What should we do to you, that the sea may cease from us?” For the sea was getting rougher and rougher.

(Jonah 1:12) 
He said to them, “Take me up and throw me into the sea, and the sea will be calm for you. For I know that because of me this great storm has come upon you.”

(Jonah 1:13) 
The men rowed to get back to dry land, but they couldn’t. For the sea continued to rage more and more.

(Jonah 1:14) 
Then they called upon the Lord and said, “We beseech you, Lord, do not let us perish for the life of this man, and do not put innocent blood upon us. For you, Lord, have done as you have willed.”

(Jonah 1:15) 
So they took Jonah and threw him into the sea. And the sea stopped its raging.

(Jonah 1:16) 
Then the men feared the Lord exceedingly, and they offered a sacrifice to the Lord and made vows.

(Jonah 1:17) 
Now the Lord prepared a great fish to swallow Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish for three days and three nights.

(Jonah 2:1) 
And Jonah prayed to the Lord his God from the belly of the fish.

(Jonah 2:2) 
And he said: "In my suffering, I called out to the Lord, and he heard me:

(Jonah 2:3) 
From the depths of Sheol (the grave), I cried out, and you heard my voice.

(Jonah 2:4) 
You cast me into the deep sea, and the waves were all around me;

(Jonah 2:5) 
all of your great waves and surging seas passed over me.

(Jonah 2:6) 
And I said: 'I am cast out from before your eyes';

(Jonah 2:7) 
yet I will look upon your holy temple again.

(Jonah 2:8) 
The waters closed in around me, threatening my life;

(Jonah 2:9) 
the deep sea engulfed me; the ocean covered my head.

(Jonah 2:10) 
I sank to the foundations of the mountains; the earth's bars closed upon me forever.

(Jonah 2:11) 
But you brought my life back from corruption, O Lord my God.

(Jonah 2:12) 
When my soul was fainting within me, Lord, I remembered you:

(Jonah 2:13) 
and my prayer came to you, into your holy temple.

(Jonah 2:14) 
Those who cling to worthless things abandon their own mercy.

(Jonah 2:15) 
But I, with a voice of thanksgiving, will offer sacrifice to you. I will pay what I have vowed for salvation.

(Jonah 2:16) 
And the Lord spoke to the fish, and it vomited Jonah out onto dry land.

(Jonah 3:1) 
The word of the Lord then came to Jonah a second time, saying:

(Jonah 3:2) 
“Go to the great city of Nineveh, and preach the message that I give to you there.”

(Jonah 3:3) 
So Jonah arose, and went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city before God, a journey of three days.

(Jonah 3:4) 
Jonah began to enter the city, going the distance of one day’s walk. And he cried out, and said, “Forty days more, and Nineveh shall be overthrown!”

(Jonah 3:5) 
And the men of Nineveh believed in God. They proclaimed a fast and put on sackcloth, from the greatest to the least.

(Jonah 3:6) 
For word reached the king of Nineveh: and he arose from his throne, and laid aside his robe, and was covered with sackcloth, and sat in ashes.

(Jonah 3:7) 
And he proclaimed and said in Nineveh: “By the decree of the king and his nobles, saying: Let neither men nor beasts, oxen nor sheep, taste anything; let them not feed, nor drink water.

(Jonah 3:8) 
And let men and beasts be covered with sackcloth, and cry to God with all their might. Let each one turn from their evil way and from the wickedness that is in their hands.

(Jonah 3:9) 
Who knows if God will turn and repent, and turn away from the wrath of His fury, so that we may not perish?”

(Jonah 3:10) 
And God saw their works, that they had turned from their evil way. And God had mercy on the evil that He said He would do to them, and He did not do it.

(Jonah 4:1) 
And Jonas was very displeased, and he became angry.

(Jonah 4:2) 
And he prayed to the Lord, and said, "I beseech Thee, Lord, was not this my word when I was still in my own land? Therefore, I fled to Tharsis, for I knew that Thou art a gracious God, and merciful, patient, and of great compassion, and easy to forgive evil."

(Jonah 4:3) 
And now, Lord, take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live."

(Jonah 4:4) 
And the Lord said, "Do you think it is right to be angry?"

(Jonah 4:5) 
And Jonas went out of the city, and sat down on the east side of it, and he made himself a booth there, and sat under it, to see what would happen to the city.

(Jonah 4:6) 
And the Lord God caused a gourd vine to grow up over the head of Jonas, to make a shade over his head, and to protect him; for he had toiled.

(Jonah 4:7) 
And Jonas was exceedingly glad because of the gourd vine.

(Jonah 4:8) 
But God prepared a worm when the dawn came up, and it struck the gourd vine, and it withered.

(Jonah 4:9) 
And it came to pass when the sun rose, that a burning wind blew, and the sun struck the head of Jonas, and he fainted, and he desired his own death, and said, "It is better for me to die than to live."

(Jonah 4:10) 
And God said to Jonas, "Do you think it is right to be angry about the gourd vine?" And he said, "I am right to be angry, even unto death."

(Jonah 4:11) 
And the Lord said, "You are sorry for the gourd vine, which you did not labor on, nor did you make it grow, which came up in a night, and perished in a night:

(Jonah 4:12) 
and should not I spare Ninive, that great city, in which there are more than one hundred and twenty thousand people who do not know how to distinguish between their right hand and their left, and also many animals?"