(Micah 1:1) 
The Word of the Lord, which came to Micah of Moresheth, in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, that he saw concerning Samaria and Jerusalem.

(Micah 1:2) 
Listen, all you peoples: let the earth give ear and the world around it: and let the Lord God be your witness, the Lord from his holy temple.

(Micah 1:3) 
Because, behold, the Lord will leave His place, and will come down, and will tread upon the high places of the earth.

(Micah 1:4) 
And the mountains will melt under Him, and the valleys will be split open as wax before the fire, and as waters that rush down a precipice.

(Micah 1:5) 
All of this is because of the sin of Jacob, and because of the sins of the house of Israel. What is the sin of Jacob? Is it not Samaria? And what are the high places of Judah? Is it not Jerusalem?

(Micah 1:6) 
I will make Samaria like a heap of stones in the field, in the planting of a vineyard: and I will cast down the stones thereof into the valley, and I will discover the foundations thereof.

(Micah 1:7) 
And all her graven images will be broken to pieces, and all her wages will be burned with fire, and I will make all her idols desolate: for she gathered them from the wages of a harlot, and she will return to the wages of a harlot.

(Micah 1:8) 
Therefore will I wail and howl: I will go stripped and naked: I will make a lamentation as for the dragons, and a mourning as for the daughters of ostriches.

(Micah 1:9) 
Because her wound is desperate: for it is come even to Judah, it has touched the gate of my people Jerusalem.

(Micah 1:10) 
Tell it not in Gath, weep not at all: in the house of dust, you shall sprinkle yourselves with dust.

(Micah 1:11) 
Pass over, you that dwell in Saphir, naked with shame: she that dwells in Sanan will not go forth. The mourning of Joath: he will take away from you his hope.

(Micah 1:12) 
For the inhabitant of Maroth is become weak for good: because evil is come down from the Lord to the gate of Jerusalem.

(Micah 1:13) 
Harness the chariot to the chariot, inhabitant of Lachis: the beginning of sin is to the daughter of Sion: for in you are found the wicked deeds of Israel.

(Micah 1:14) 
Therefore she will give a parting gift to Moresheth Gath: the houses of Achzib will be a lie to the kings of Israel.

(Micah 1:15) 
I will bring to you again the heir, inhabitant of Maresa: even to Odollam will come the glory of Israel.

(Micah 1:16) 
Make yourself bald, and shave off the hair of your head for your delicate sons: enlarge your baldness as the eagle: because they are gone from you.

(Micah 2:1) 
Woe to those who plan wickedness, and work evil in your beds! You will bring it to completion in the morning light, because it is in your power.

(Micah 2:2) 
And they covet fields, and seize them by force, and houses, and take them away: they have calumniated the man and his house, the man and his inheritance.

(Micah 2:3) 
Therefore, the Lord says this: Behold, I am planning evil against this generation, from which you will not remove your necks, and you will not walk proudly, for it is an evil time.

(Micah 2:4) 
In that day, a parable will be taken up against you, and sung in a song, saying:

(Micah 2:5) 
“We are utterly destroyed! He has taken my portion of the land. He has parceled out my fields.”

(Micah 2:6) 
Therefore, there will be no one for you to cast a lot in the assembly of the Lord.

(Micah 2:7) 
“Do not preach,” they say, “do not prophesy.” They will not prophesy to these, and they will not suffer reproaches.

(Micah 2:8) 
But I say: What will you speak? For an evil time will come.

(Micah 2:9) 
And he said: “Listen to what I speak: Do not hope. Do not hope,” he said, “in the sons of iniquity.”

(Micah 2:10) 
Because you suddenly drive away my people: from their garments you take away the robe, from those passing by confidently, turning them away.

(Micah 2:11) 
The women of my people you cast out from the houses of their delights, taking away their glory forever from their children.

(Micah 2:12) 
Arise, and go, because there is no rest here because of the uncleanness that ruins, a most grievous ruin.

(Micah 2:13) 
If I were to walk in the spirit and go falsely, I would say to you, “Prophesy,” and I would prophesy to you of wine and drunkenness, and this would be the people I would speak to.

(Micah 3:1) 
And I said: “Listen, rulers of Israel! You leaders of the house of Jacob, shouldn’t you know what’s right?

(Micah 3:2) 
You hate good and you love evil. You tear the skin off the poor and take away their flesh from their bones.

(Micah 3:3) 
You eat the flesh of my people, you rip the skin off them, you break their bones, you chop them up like meat in a pot, like flesh in a cauldron.

(Micah 3:4) 
Then they will cry to the Lord, but He will not answer them. He will hide His face from them in that time, because of the evil they have done.

(Micah 3:5) 
Thus says the Lord about the false prophets who lead my people astray: “They bite with their teeth and cry out, ‘Peace!’ If anyone does not give them something to eat, they prepare war against him.”

(Micah 3:6) 
Therefore, the night will be for you instead of vision, and darkness will be for you instead of divination. The sun will set upon the prophets, and the day will be darkened for them.

(Micah 3:7) 
Then the seers will be ashamed, and the diviners will blush. They will all cover their mouths, for there will be no answer from God.

(Micah 3:8) 
But as for me, I am filled with the power of the Spirit of the Lord, and with justice and strength, to declare to Jacob his crimes and to Israel his sins.

(Micah 3:9) 
Hear this, you leaders of the house of Jacob, and rulers of the house of Israel, you who hate justice, and who pervert all that is right:

(Micah 3:10) 
You build Zion with bloodshed, and Jerusalem with iniquity.

(Micah 3:11) 
Its leaders judge for a bribe, its priests teach for pay, and its prophets divine for money. And they lean on the Lord, saying, “Is the Lord not among us? No evil will come upon us.”

(Micah 3:12) 
Therefore, because of you, Zion will be plowed like a field, and Jerusalem will be a heap of stones, and the mountain of the temple will be like the high places of the forest.

(Micah 4:1) 
In the last days, the mountain of the Lord's house will be made ready. This mountain will be the highest of all mountains, and more important than the hills. And people will come to it.

(Micah 4:2) 
Many nations will hasten to it, and they will say, “Come! Let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob. He will teach us His ways, and we will walk in His paths. For the Law will go out from Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.”

(Micah 4:3) 
He will judge among many peoples, and will rebuke strong nations from afar. And they will turn their swords into plowshares, and their spears into sickles. Nation shall not take up the sword against nation, nor will they learn war anymore.

(Micah 4:4) 
Everyone will sit under their own vine, and under their own fig tree, and no one will make them afraid. For the mouth of the Lord of Hosts has spoken.

(Micah 4:5) 
For all peoples will walk, each in the name of their own god, and we will walk in the name of the Lord our God, forever and ever.

(Micah 4:6) 
“In that day,” says the Lord, “I will gather the lame, and the one who was cast out, and the one whom I afflicted.”

(Micah 4:7) 
I will make the lame a remnant, and the one who was weary, a strong nation. And the Lord will reign over them in Mount Zion, from now and forever.

(Micah 4:8) 
And you, O tower of the flock, O fortified hill of the daughter of Zion, the former dominion will come to you, and the kingdom will come to the daughter of Jerusalem.

(Micah 4:9) 
Now, why do you cry aloud? Is there no king in you? Has your counselor perished, that pain has seized you like a woman in labor?

(Micah 4:10) 
Be in pain, and labor, daughter of Zion, like a woman in labor. For now you will go out of the city, and you will live in the countryside, and you will come to the field; and there you will be saved.

(Micah 4:11) 
Now many nations are gathered against you, saying, “Let her be profaned, and let our eye see in Zion.”

(Micah 4:12) 
But they do not know the thoughts of the Lord, and they have not understood His plan, for He has gathered them like sheaves to the threshing floor.

(Micah 4:13) 
Arise, and thresh, daughter of Zion, for I will make your horn iron, and I will make your hooves bronze, and you will crush many peoples, and you will consecrate the Lord of the earth, and their plunder to the Lord.

(Micah 5:1) 
Now you must gather your troops. A siege will be set against us. With a rod, the judge of Israel will strike on the cheek.

(Micah 5:2) 
And you, Bethlehem Ephrata, are small among the clans of Judah, but from you, the ruler of Israel will come forth for me, whose origins are from old, even from eternity itself.

(Micah 5:3) 
Therefore, God will let them be defeated until the one who will give birth has given birth, and then the rest of his brothers will return to the Israelites.

(Micah 5:4) 
He will stand and lead them in the strength of the Lord, in the glorious name of the Lord his God. And they will be converted and be with him, because his kingdom will be made great until the ends of the earth.

(Micah 5:5) 
And He will be peace, and when the Assyrians invade our land, and tread on our houses, we will raise up against them seven shepherds, and eight leaders from among mankind.

(Micah 5:6) 
They will shepherd the land of the Assyrians with the sword, and the land of Nimrod with his spears. And they will save us from the Assyrian, when he invades our land, and when he steps inside our borders.

(Micah 5:7) 
And the remnant of Jacob will be among many peoples, like dew from the Lord, like showers on the grass, not waiting on man, nor expecting the sons of men.

(Micah 5:8) 
The remnant of Jacob will be among the Gentiles, in the midst of many peoples, like a lion among the beasts of the forest, like a young lion among flocks of sheep, when he passes through, tramples, and seizes, and there is none to rescue.

(Micah 5:9) 
Let your hand be raised against your enemies, and may all your enemies perish.

(Micah 5:10) 
And in that day, says the Lord, I will take away your horses from among you, and I will destroy your chariots.

(Micah 5:11) 
I will remove the cities of your land, and I will tear down all your fortresses.

(Micah 5:12) 
I will take away your sorceries, and there will be no divination practiced by you.

(Micah 5:13) 
I will take away your carved images, and your idols, and you shall no longer worship the works of your hands.

(Micah 5:14) 
I will tear out your groves from your midst, and I will destroy your cities.

(Micah 5:15) 
And I will execute vengeance in wrath and indignation on the nations who have not obeyed.

(Micah 6:1) 
Hear what the Lord is saying: “Rise up. Make your case before the mountains, and let the hills hear your voice.”

(Micah 6:2) 
Mountains, hear the Lord’s legal case. You solid foundations of the earth, listen to the judgment. For the Lord is in judgment with His people, and He will contend with Israel.

(Micah 6:3) 
My people, what have I done to you? How have I wearied you? Answer Me.

(Micah 6:4) 
Because I brought you out of the land of Egypt. I freed you from slavery. I sent before you Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.

(Micah 6:5) 
My people, remember what Balak, king of Moab, planned, and what Balaam son of Beor answered him, and the journey from Shittim to Gilgal, so that you may know the righteous acts of the Lord.

(Micah 6:6) 
With what shall I come before the Lord, and bow down to God on high? Shall I come before Him with burnt offerings, with calves of a year old?

(Micah 6:7) 
Will the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams, or with ten thousand rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn son for my wickedness, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?

(Micah 6:8) 
He has shown you, O man, what is good, and what the Lord requires of you. Surely, to do justice, to love mercy, and to walk carefully with your God.

(Micah 6:9) 
The Lord's voice cries out to the city: Fear will call, and the wise will see your name. Listen, you tribes, and all who are gathered.

(Micah 6:10) 
Are there still treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked? And a diminished measure, full of curse?

(Micah 6:11) 
Shall I justify the wicked balance, and the deceitful purse in my hand?

(Micah 6:12) 
Because the rich of the city are filled with wickedness, and its inhabitants have spoken lies, and their tongues are deceitful in their mouth.

(Micah 6:13) 
So now I have struck you, making you barren because of your sins.

(Micah 6:14) 
You will eat, but not be satisfied. Your despair will be in your midst. You will take in, but not save. And those you save, I will deliver to the sword.

(Micah 6:15) 
You will sow, but not reap. You will tread the olive, but you will not anoint yourself with oil. You will crush the grapes, but will not drink the wine.

(Micah 6:16) 
You have kept the statutes of Omri and all the works of the house of Ahab. You have walked in their ways, so that I would make you a ruin. I will make your inhabitants a hissing, and you will bear the reproach of My people.

(Micah 7:1) 
Woe is me, for I am become as a man who gathers the remnants of the harvest. There is no ripe cluster of grapes to eat, and the first fruits that I desired have passed away.

(Micah 7:2) 
The holy ones have vanished from the land, and there is no one who acts uprightly among men. They all lie in wait for the blood of their neighbors, each one hunts his brother unto death.

(Micah 7:3) 
Their hands are ready to do evil. The prince demands a bribe, and the judge is influenced by money. The great man expresses the desire of his soul, and they thus conspire together.

(Micah 7:4) 
The best of them is like a thornbush, and the most upright is like a thorny hedge. The day of their punishment is coming, the day that they have been warned about.

(Micah 7:5) 
Do not trust your neighbor, and do not rely on a friend. Be on guard against the one who lies in your bosom; keep the doors of your mouth.

(Micah 7:6) 
For the son dishonors the father, the daughter rises up against her mother, the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. A man’s enemies are the men of his own house.

(Micah 7:7) 
But I will look to the Lord; I will wait for God my Savior; my God will hear me.

(Micah 7:8) 
Do not rejoice over me, O my enemy, for though I have fallen, I will arise. When I sit in darkness, the Lord will be my light.

(Micah 7:9) 
I will bear the wrath of the Lord, because I have sinned against Him, until He judges my cause and executes my judgment. He will bring me out into the light; I will see His justice.

(Micah 7:10) 
Then my enemy will see, and she will be covered with shame, she who said to me, “Where is the Lord your God?” My eyes will gaze upon her; now she will be for trampling, like the mud in the streets.

(Micah 7:11) 
In the day that your walls are to be rebuilt, in that day the boundary will be extended. In that day the Assyrian will come to you, and to the fortified cities.

(Micah 7:12) 
In that day, they will come to you from Assyria, and from the fortified cities, and from the fortresses to the river, and from sea to sea, and from mountain to mountain.

(Micah 7:13) 
And the land will be desolate because of its inhabitants, as a result of their deeds.

(Micah 7:14) 
Shepherd Your people with Your staff, the flock of Your inheritance, those who dwell alone in the forest, in the midst of Carmel. Let them feed in Bashan and Gilead, as in the days of old.

(Micah 7:15) 
As in the days of your coming out of the land of Egypt, I will show them wonders.

(Micah 7:16) 
The nations will see and be ashamed of all their power; they will put their hand over their mouth, their ears will be deaf.

(Micah 7:17) 
They will lick the dust like a serpent, like the reptiles of the earth. They will come trembling out of their fortresses, and they will fear the Lord our God and be afraid.

(Micah 7:18) 
Who is a God like You, who removes iniquity and passes over the transgression of the remnant of His inheritance? He does not hold onto anger forever because He delights in mercy.

(Micah 7:19) 
He will turn again and have mercy on us. He will tread our iniquities underfoot, and will cast all our sins into the depths of the sea.

(Micah 7:20) 
You will give truth to Jacob, and mercy to Abraham, which You swore to our fathers from days of old.