(Haggai 1:1) 
In the second year that Darius was king, in the sixth month, on the first day of the month, the Lord spoke to Haggai the prophet, to Zorobabel son of Shealtiel, the governor of Judah, and to Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest, saying:

(Haggai 1:2) 
“The Lord of Hosts says this: ‘This people says: ‘The time to build the Lord’s house has not yet come.’”

(Haggai 1:3) 
Then the Lord spoke through Haggai the prophet, saying:

(Haggai 1:4) 
“Is it right for you to be living in your paneled homes while this house remains in ruins?”

(Haggai 1:5) 
“Now, this is what the Lord of Hosts says: ‘Consider your ways!’

(Haggai 1:6) 
“You have planted much, but harvested little. You eat, but you are not satisfied. You drink, but you are not drunk. You put on clothes, but you are not warm. The one who earns wages puts them in a bag full of holes.’”

(Haggai 1:7) 
“This is what the Lord of Hosts says: ‘Consider your ways!’

(Haggai 1:8) 
“Go up into the hills, bring timber, and build the house. I will take pleasure in it, and I will be glorified,’ says the Lord.”

(Haggai 1:9) 
“You expected much, but it came to little. When you brought it home, I blew it away. Why?” says the Lord of Hosts. “Because my house is ruined, while each of you is busy with your own home.”

(Haggai 1:10) 
“Therefore, the sky has withheld the dew over you, and the earth has withheld its produce.

(Haggai 1:11) 
“I have called for a drought on the land, on the mountains, on the grain, on the wine, on the oil, on everything that the ground produces, and on men, on animals, and on all the work of your hands.”

(Haggai 1:12) 
Then Zorobabel son of Shealtiel, Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and all the rest of the people listened to the voice of the Lord their God, and the words of Haggai the prophet because the Lord their God had sent him. And the people feared the Lord.

(Haggai 1:13) 
Then Haggai, the Lord’s messenger, gave the Lord’s message to the people, saying: “I am with you, says the Lord.”

(Haggai 1:14) 
So the Lord stirred up the spirit of Zorobabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and the spirit of the rest of the people. They came and began to work on the house of the Lord of Hosts on the twenty-fourth day of the sixth month, in the second year of Darius the king.

(Haggai 2:1) 
In the second year of King Darius, in the sixth month, on the first day of the month, the Son revealed himself to the prophet Haggai, and through Haggai spoke the Lord to Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, who was the governor of Judah, and to Joshua, the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, saying:

(Haggai 2:2) 
The Lord of Hosts says this: “This people says that the time has not yet come to rebuild the Lord’s house. But now is the time—the house of the Lord must be rebuilt.”

(Haggai 2:3) 
Then the Son spoke through the prophet Haggai, saying:

(Haggai 2:4) 
“Who among you is left who saw this house in its former glory? And how do you see it now? Isn’t it as nothing in your eyes?

(Haggai 2:5) 
“But now, be strong, Zerubbabel,” says the Lord. “And be strong, Joshua, son of Jehozadak, the high priest. Be strong, all you people of the land,” says the Lord, “and work, because I am with you,” says the Lord of Hosts.

(Haggai 2:6) 
“This is what I promised when you came out of Egypt: My Spirit shall remain among you. Fear not.”

(Haggai 2:7) 
“For the Lord of Hosts says this: 'Once more, I will shake the universe and the earth, the sea and the dry land.'

(Haggai 2:8) 
“'I will shake all the nations, and the desired one of all nations will come, and I will fill this house with glory,’ says the Lord of Hosts.

(Haggai 2:9) 
“'The silver is mine, and the gold is mine,’ says the Lord of Hosts.

(Haggai 2:10) 
“The glory of this new house will be greater than the glory of the former house,” says the Lord of Hosts, “and in this place, I will give peace,” says the Lord of Hosts.

(Haggai 2:11) 
On the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, the Son spoke through Haggai the prophet, saying:

(Haggai 2:12) 
The Lord of Hosts says this: “Ask the priests about the law, saying:

(Haggai 2:13) 
“‘If a man carries consecrated meat in his garment, and the edge of his garment touches bread, or cooked food, or wine, or oil, or any other food, will it be consecrated?’”

(Haggai 2:14) 
The priests answered, “No.”

(Haggai 2:15) 
Then Haggai said, “If someone unclean by contact with a dead body touches any of these things, will they be defiled?” The priests answered, “They will be defiled.”

(Haggai 2:16) 
Then Haggai said, “Such is this people, and such is this nation before Me,” says the Lord, “and such is every work of their hands, and everything they offer there is defiled.”

(Haggai 2:17) 
“But now, consider this from this day forward, before the stones were laid in the temple of the Lord.

(Haggai 2:18) 
“When you went to the winepress to get twenty measures, there were only ten. And when you went to the pool to draw water, you could not, because I had brought a curse on all the works of your hands.”

(Haggai 2:19) 
“I struck you with blight and mildew in all the work of your hands; yet you did not turn to Me,” says the Lord.

(Haggai 2:20) 
“Consider this, from this day forward, from the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, from the day the Lord’s temple was founded; consider this:

(Haggai 2:21) 
“Is any seed still in the barn? From this day on, I will bless you.”

(Haggai 2:22) 
The Son spoke to Haggai the second time on the twenty-fourth day of the month, saying:

(Haggai 2:23) 
“Speak to Zerubbabel, the governor of Judah, saying: ‘I will shake the universe and the earth.

(Haggai 2:24) 
“‘I will overthrow the thrones of kingdoms and destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the nations. I will overthrow the chariots and their riders; the horses and their riders will fall, each by the sword of his brother.

(Haggai 2:25) 
“‘On that day,’ says the Lord of Hosts, ‘I will take you, Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, my servant,’ says the Lord, ‘and I will make you like a signet ring, for I have chosen you,’ says the Lord of Hosts.”