(Zechariah 1:1) 
In the second year of the reign of Darius, in the eighth month, the word of the Lord came to Zechariah, the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, the prophet, saying:

(Zechariah 1:2) 
The Lord was angry with your fathers.

(Zechariah 1:3) 
And you shall say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord of hosts: “Return to me,” says the Lord of hosts, “and I will return to you,” says the Lord of hosts.’

(Zechariah 1:4) 
Do not be like your fathers, to whom the former prophets cried out, saying, ‘Thus says the Lord of hosts: “Turn now from your evil ways and from your evil deeds.”’ But they did not listen, nor did they pay attention to me, says the Lord.

(Zechariah 1:5) 
Your fathers, where are they? And the prophets, do they live forever?

(Zechariah 1:6) 
But my words and my decrees, which I commanded my servants the prophets, did they not reach your fathers? So they turned and said, ‘As the Lord of hosts purposed to do to us according to our ways and according to our deeds, so he has done to us.’

(Zechariah 1:7) 
On the twenty-fourth day of the eleventh month, which is the month of Shebat, the word of the Lord came to Zechariah, the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, the prophet, saying:

(Zechariah 1:8) 
I saw by night, and behold, a man riding on a red horse, and he was standing among the myrtle trees, which were in the deep; and behind him were red, dappled, and white horses.

(Zechariah 1:9) 
And I said, “What are these, my lord?”

(Zechariah 1:10) 
And the angel who spoke with me said to me, “I will show you what these are.”

(Zechariah 1:11) 
And the man who was standing among the myrtle trees replied, “These are they whom the Lord has sent to patrol the earth.”

(Zechariah 1:12) 
And they answered the angel of the Lord who spoke to them, “We have patrolled the earth, and behold, all the earth is inhabited and at rest.”

(Zechariah 1:13) 
Then the angel of the Lord answered and said, “O Lord of hosts, how long will you not have compassion on Jerusalem and on the cities of Judah, against which you have been angry these seventy years?”

(Zechariah 1:14) 
And the Lord answered the angel who spoke with me, good words, words of consolation.

(Zechariah 1:15) 
And the angel who spoke with me said to me, “Cry out, saying, ‘Thus says the Lord of hosts: “I am jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion with a great jealousy.”’

(Zechariah 1:16) 
And I am exceedingly angry with the nations that are at ease; for I was only a little angry, and they have helped to bring about the evil.”

(Zechariah 1:17) 
Therefore, thus says the Lord: “I have returned to Jerusalem with compassion. My house shall be built in it,” says the Lord of hosts, “and the measuring line shall be stretched out over Jerusalem.”

(Zechariah 1:18) 
Cry out again, saying, ‘Thus says the Lord of hosts: “My cities shall yet again abound with prosperity, and the Lord will again comfort Zion and again choose Jerusalem.”’

(Zechariah 1:19) 
And I lifted up my eyes and saw, and behold, four horns.

(Zechariah 1:20) 
And I said to the angel who spoke with me, “What are these?”

(Zechariah 1:21) 
And he answered me, “These are the horns which have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem.”

(Zechariah 1:22) 
Then the Lord showed me four smiths.

(Zechariah 1:23) 
And I said, “What are these coming to do?” And he said, “These are the horns that scattered Judah, so that no one could lift up his head; and these have come to terrify them, to cast down the horns of the nations, which lifted up their horn against the land of Judah to scatter it.”

(Zechariah 2:1) 
And I lifted up my eyes and looked, and behold, a man holding a measuring line in his hand.

(Zechariah 2:2) 
So I asked him, “Where are you going?” And he said to me, “To measure Jerusalem, to see how wide it is and how long it is.”

(Zechariah 2:3) 
Then the angel who was speaking to me went out, and another angel went out to meet him.

(Zechariah 2:4) 
He said to him, “Run, speak to that young man, saying: ‘Jerusalem will be inhabited without walls, because of the multitude of men and animals in it.’

(Zechariah 2:5) 
And I, says the Lord, will be a wall of fire all around her, and I will be glory in the midst of her.”

(Zechariah 2:6) 
O, oh, flee from the land of the north, says the Lord: “For I have scattered you to the four winds, says the Lord.”

(Zechariah 2:7) 
Arise, Zion, you who live with the daughter of Babylon.

(Zechariah 2:8) 
For thus says the Lord of hosts: “After glory He sent me to the nations who plundered you: for he who touches you touches the pupil of My eye.”

(Zechariah 2:9) 
For behold, I will raise My hand against them, and they will be plunder for those who served them: and you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me.”

(Zechariah 2:10) 
Sing and rejoice, daughter of Zion, for behold, I come, and I will dwell in your midst, says the Lord.

(Zechariah 2:11) 
And many nations will be joined to the Lord in that day, and they will be My people: and I will dwell in your midst. And you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you.

(Zechariah 2:12) 
And the Lord will take possession of Judah, His portion, in the holy land: and He will yet choose Jerusalem.

(Zechariah 2:13) 
Let all flesh be silent before the Lord: for He is roused from His holy dwelling.”

(Zechariah 3:1) 
The Lord showed me Joshua, the High Priest, standing before the angel of the Lord; and Satan stood at his right hand to accuse him.

(Zechariah 3:2) 
And the Lord said to Satan: "May the Lord rebuke you, Satan! May the Lord rebuke you, Satan, who has chosen Jerusalem. Isn't this man like a brand pulled from the fire?"

(Zechariah 3:3) 
Now, Joshua was dressed in filthy garments. He stood before the angel.

(Zechariah 3:4) 
The angel spoke to those standing before him, saying: "Take off his filthy garments." And he said to Joshua, "Behold, I have removed your iniquity, and I will clothe you in clean garments."

(Zechariah 3:5) 
Then I said, "Let them put a clean turban on his head." So they put a clean turban on his head, and they clothed him with garments. And the angel of the Lord stood by.

(Zechariah 3:6) 
And the angel of the Lord testified to Joshua, saying:

(Zechariah 3:7) 
"Thus says the Lord of hosts: 'If you walk in my ways, and keep my commandments, you shall judge my house, and you shall also walk in my courts. And I will give you access among those who are standing here.'

(Zechariah 3:8) 
“Hear, Joshua the High Priest, you and your friends who sit before you, for these men are a sign. Behold, I am bringing my servant, the Branch.

(Zechariah 3:9) 
For behold, the stone that I have laid before Joshua, upon one stone are seven eyes. Behold, I will engrave its inscription," says the Lord of hosts, "and I will remove the iniquity of the land in one day.

(Zechariah 3:10) 
“In that day,” says the Lord of hosts, “every one will invite his neighbor to come under his vine and under his fig tree.”

(Zechariah 4:1) 
And the angel who was speaking with me came back and roused me, as if he were waking a man from sleep.

(Zechariah 4:2) 
He asked me, “What do you see?” I said, “I see a solid gold lampstand, with a bowl at the top. There are seven lamps on the lampstand, each with its own little tube.

(Zechariah 4:3) 
And on each side of the lampstand stand two olive trees, one on the right side of the bowl and one on the left.

(Zechariah 4:4) 
I answered, speaking to the angel who was talking with me, and I said, “What are these, my lord?”

(Zechariah 4:5) 
The angel who was talking with me answered and said to me, “Don’t you know what these are?” I said, “No, my lord.”

(Zechariah 4:6) 
He answered and spoke to me, saying: “This is the Lord's message to Zerubbabel: ‘It is not by army or by strength, but by My Spirit,’ says the Lord of hosts.

(Zechariah 4:7) 
Who are you, great mountain, before Zerubbabel? It will be made level ground; and he will bring forth the cornerstone with shouts of “Grace, grace to it!”

(Zechariah 4:8) 
Then the Lord's word came to me, saying:

(Zechariah 4:9) 
“The hands of Zerubbabel have laid the foundation of this temple; his hands will also complete it.’ Then you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you.

(Zechariah 4:10) 
For whoever has despised the day of small things will rejoice and see the plumb line in the hand of Zerubbabel. These seven are the eyes of the Lord that range throughout the earth.

(Zechariah 4:11) 
Then I said, “What are these two olive trees on the right and the left of the lampstand?”

(Zechariah 4:12) 
And for the second time I said, “What are these two olive branches beside the two golden spouts that are pouring out golden oil?”

(Zechariah 4:13) 
He asked me, “Don’t you know what these are?” I said, “No, my lord.”

(Zechariah 4:14) 
Then he said, “These are the two anointed ones who stand before the Lord of all the earth.”

(Zechariah 5:1) 
I turned, and looked up, and saw: and behold a flying scroll.

(Zechariah 5:2) 
He said to me: “What do you see?” And I said: “I see a flying scroll; its length is twenty cubits, and its width ten cubits.”

(Zechariah 5:3) 
Then he said to me: “This is the curse that goes out over the face of the whole earth; because every thief, as it is written, is judged, and everyone who swears falsely, as it is written, will be held as innocent.”

(Zechariah 5:4) 
“I will send it out,” says the Lord of hosts, “and it will enter the house of the thief, and the house of those who swear falsely in my name; and it will stay inside of that house, and consume it, with its timbers and its stones.”

(Zechariah 5:5) 
Then the angel who was speaking with me came forward, and said to me: “Raise your eyes and see what this is going out.”

(Zechariah 5:6) 
I said: “What is it?” And he said: “It is an ephah measure going out.” And he said: “This is their iniquity throughout the whole earth.”

(Zechariah 5:7) 
And behold, a talent of lead was being carried, and behold, a woman was sitting inside of the ephah.

(Zechariah 5:8) 
And he said: “This is wickedness.” And he cast her into the middle of the ephah, and cast the lead weight over its mouth.

(Zechariah 5:9) 
Then I raised my eyes, and saw: and behold, two women were going out, and the wind was in their wings; and they had wings like the wings of a stork: and they carried the ephah between the land and the sky.

(Zechariah 5:10) 
Then I said to the angel who was speaking with me: “Where are these taking the ephah?”

(Zechariah 5:11) 
And he said to me: “So that a house may be built for it in the land of Shinar, and it may be established, and put there upon its base.”

(Zechariah 6:1) 
Then I turned and looked up, and saw four cosmic powers, rising from between two mountains. These mountains were made of bronze.

(Zechariah 6:2) 
The first chariot had red horses, and the second chariot had black horses,

(Zechariah 6:3) 
the third chariot had white horses, and the fourth chariot had dappled, strong horses.

(Zechariah 6:4) 
Then I answered, and said to the angel who was speaking with me: “What are these, my Lord?”

(Zechariah 6:5) 
The angel answered, and said to me: “These are the four cosmic powers sent from the heavens. They serve the Lord of all Creation.”

(Zechariah 6:6) 
The black horses went towards the southern land, and the white horses followed them. The dappled horses went towards the sunrise.

(Zechariah 6:7) 
Then they went out, and sought to travel through the land. The angel said: “Go and travel the Earth,” and they went around the earth.

(Zechariah 6:8) 
Then he called to me, and spoke to me, saying: “See those who are going to the northern land? They have calmed my spirit in the north.”

(Zechariah 6:9) 
Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying:

(Zechariah 6:10) 
“Receive gifts from those who were in captivity from Heldai, and from Tobias, and from Jedaiah, who came from Babylon. You will come on that day, and enter the house of Josiah, son of Zephaniah.

(Zechariah 6:11) 
Take gold and silver, and make crowns, and place them on the head of Joshua, son of Jehozadak, the high priest.

(Zechariah 6:12) 
Say to him: ‘Thus says the Lord of Hosts: “Behold, the man whose name is the Rising Sun. He will arise where he is, and He will rebuild the Temple of the Lord.

(Zechariah 6:13) 
He will rebuild the Temple of the Lord; He will take glory and sit and rule on His throne, and He will be a priest on His throne, and there will be peace between the two of them.”

(Zechariah 6:14) 
The crowns will be for Heldai, and Tobias, and Jedaiah, and for the son of Zephaniah, as a memorial in the Temple of the Lord.

(Zechariah 6:15) 
Then those who are far away will come and rebuild in the Temple of the Lord; and you will know that the Lord of Hosts has sent me to you. This will happen if you listen to the voice of the Lord your God.”

(Zechariah 7:1) 
In the fourth year of King Darius's reign, the Word of the Lord came to Zechariah, on the fourth day of the ninth month, the month of Casleu.

(Zechariah 7:2) 
And the people of Bethel sent Sarasar and Regemmelech, and the men who were with them, to pray to the Lord.

(Zechariah 7:3) 
They asked the priests who were in the house of the Lord of hosts, and the prophets, saying: “Should I continue to mourn in the fifth month, as I have done for so many years?”

(Zechariah 7:4) 
Then the Word of the Lord came to me, saying:

(Zechariah 7:5) 
“Speak to all the people of the land, and to the priests, saying: ‘When you fasted and wept in the fifth and seventh months for these seventy years, was it really for Me that you were fasting?’

(Zechariah 7:6) 
And when you ate, and when you drank, weren’t you eating and drinking for your own sakes?

(Zechariah 7:7) 
Did the Lord not give you the same message that He delivered through the prophets who came before, when Jerusalem was inhabited, and prosperous, and when its cities were spread out all around, and the south and the plain were inhabited?”

(Zechariah 7:8) 
And the Word of the Lord came to Zechariah, saying:

(Zechariah 7:9) 
“The Lord of hosts has spoken, saying: ‘Administer true justice, and show mercy and compassion, each one to his brother.’”

(Zechariah 7:10) 
“Do not oppress the widow, nor the orphan, nor the stranger, nor the poor; and let no man devise evil in his heart against his brother.”

(Zechariah 7:11) 
But they refused to listen, and they turned a stubborn shoulder, and their ears were stopped so they would not hear.

(Zechariah 7:12) 
They made their hearts as hard as a diamond, so that they would not listen to the Law, and the words that the Lord sent by the hand of the former prophets. Therefore, there came great wrath from the Lord of hosts.

(Zechariah 7:13) 
And it came to pass that just as He called out, and they would not listen, so they will cry out, and I will not listen, says the Lord of hosts.

(Zechariah 7:14) 
And I scattered them among all the nations which they did not know, and the land behind them was desolate as they passed through, and there was no return, and they made the desirable land a desolation.”

(Zechariah 8:1) 
The Word of the Lord came to Zachariah, saying:

(Zechariah 8:2) 
“The Lord of Hosts says this: ‘I am passionately concerned for Zion, and I love her very much.’”

(Zechariah 8:3) 
“The Lord says this: ‘I will return to Zion. I will live in the middle of Jerusalem. Jerusalem will be called “the city of truth,” and the mountain of the Lord of Hosts will be called “the holy mountain.”’

(Zechariah 8:4) 
“The Lord of Hosts says this: ‘Old men and old women will sit in the streets of Jerusalem, each with a staff in their hand because of old age.’

(Zechariah 8:5) 
‘And the streets of the city will be full of boys and girls playing in its streets.’

(Zechariah 8:6) 
“The Lord of Hosts says this: ‘It may seem difficult to the remnant of this people at that time, but do you think it will be difficult for me too?’ says the Lord of Hosts?

(Zechariah 8:7) 
“The Lord of Hosts says this: ‘I will save my people from the east and the west.’

(Zechariah 8:8) 
‘I will bring them back. They will live in Jerusalem. They will be my people, and I will be their God, with truth and justice.’

(Zechariah 8:9) 
“The Lord of Hosts says this: ‘Be strong, all of you who hear these words in these days, the days when the foundation of the Lord’s house was laid so that the temple might be built.’

(Zechariah 8:10) 
‘Before those days, there was no pay for people or animals, and there was no peace because of the trouble. I will let every person turn against their neighbor.’

(Zechariah 8:11) 
‘But now, unlike those former days, I will plant the seeds of peace. The vineyard will produce its fruit. The earth will give its harvest, and the sky will give its dew. I will give all these things to the remnant of my people.’

(Zechariah 8:12) 
‘Then it will be: just as you, the house of Judah and the house of Israel, were a curse among the nations, so I will save you, and you will be a blessing. Do not be afraid. Be strong!’

(Zechariah 8:13) 
“The Lord of Hosts says this: ‘Just as I decided to bring disaster upon you, when your ancestors angered me,’ says the Lord, ‘I did not change my mind,’

(Zechariah 8:14) 
‘so now I have decided to bring good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah. Do not be afraid.’

(Zechariah 8:15) 
“These are the things you must do: Speak the truth to each other. Judge fairly and justly in your courts.

(Zechariah 8:16) 
Do not plan evil against each other. Do not love to swear falsely. I hate all these things,” says the Lord.

(Zechariah 8:17) 
The Word of the Lord of Hosts came to me, saying:

(Zechariah 8:18) 
“The Lord of Hosts says this: ‘The fasts of the fourth, fifth, seventh, and tenth months will become times of joy, gladness, and cheerful festivals for the house of Judah. But love truth and peace.’

(Zechariah 8:19) 
“The Lord of Hosts says this: ‘People from many cities will come again,’

(Zechariah 8:20) 
and the inhabitants of one city will go to another, saying, ‘Let us go and seek the favor of the Lord and search for the Lord of Hosts. I am going, too.’

(Zechariah 8:21) 
‘Many peoples and powerful nations will come to Jerusalem to seek the Lord of Hosts and to implore the favor of the Lord.’

(Zechariah 8:22) 
“The Lord of Hosts says this: ‘In those days, ten men from every language of the nations will grasp the cloak of a Jew, saying, ‘Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you.’

(Zechariah 9:1) 
This is the prophecy of the Lord about the land of Hadrach. The Lord's protection will fall on Damascus; the eyes of mankind and of all the tribes of Israel are turned to Him.

(Zechariah 9:2) 
So too will Hadrach and Hamath; and Tyre and Sidon, because those cities have developed great skill.

(Zechariah 9:3) 
Tyre built itself strongholds and amassed wealth as great as dust, and gold as common as the mud of the streets.

(Zechariah 9:4) 
But the Lord will take away her power. He will cast her strength into the sea, and the city will be consumed by fire.

(Zechariah 9:5) 
Ashkelon will see it and fear, and Gaza will be in great pain; Ekron will be terrified, for her hope will be gone. The king will perish from Gaza, and Ashkelon will be deserted.

(Zechariah 9:6) 
Foreigners will occupy Ashdod, and I will cut off the pride of the Philistines.

(Zechariah 9:7) 
I will take away the blood from their mouths and the abominations from between their teeth. Those who remain will belong to the Lord and will become a part of Judah, and Ekron will join as one of the Israelites.

(Zechariah 9:8) 
I will keep my people safe from their enemies, who pass through and return. I will watch over them with my own eyes, and no oppressor will ever come against them again.

(Zechariah 9:9) 
Rejoice greatly, daughter Zion! Shout, daughter Jerusalem! Look, your king is coming to you! He is righteous and brings salvation! He is humble, riding on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey.

(Zechariah 9:10) 
I will cut off the chariots of Ephraim and the horses of Jerusalem, and the bows of war will be broken. He will proclaim peace to the nations; his dominion will extend from sea to sea and from the Euphrates to the ends of the earth.

(Zechariah 9:11) 
Because of the blood of my covenant with you, I will set your prisoners free from the waterless pit. Return to your stronghold, you prisoners of hope; today I declare that I will restore twice as much to you.

(Zechariah 9:12) 
Return to your stronghold, you prisoners of hope; today I declare that I will restore twice as much to you.

(Zechariah 9:13) 
I will bend Judah as my bow, and I will fit the arrow of Ephraim. I will rouse your sons, Zion, against the sons of Greece; I will make you like a warrior’s sword.

(Zechariah 9:14) 
Then the Lord will appear over them; his arrow will be like lightning. The Lord God will sound the trumpet and will march in the storms of the south.

(Zechariah 9:15) 
The Lord of Hosts will protect them. They will eat and will trample the sling stones; they will drink and roar as if drunk with wine; they will be filled with blood like bowls, like the corners of the altar.

(Zechariah 9:16) 
On that day the Lord their God will save them, like the flock of his people. For they will be like the jewels of a crown, gleaming over his land.

(Zechariah 9:17) 
How beautiful and good they are, the grain of the elect, and the new wine that makes virgins flourish!

(Zechariah 10:1) 
Beseech the Lord, and He will give rain at the appointed time: then the Lord will make the clouds gather, and He will give them food in the field.

(Zechariah 10:2) 
False gods speak empty words; the soothsayers have seen lies and spoken in vain; they console in vain. Therefore, they have wandered away like sheep, and are afflicted because there is no shepherd.

(Zechariah 10:3) 
My wrath is kindled against the shepherds, and I will punish the leaders. For the Lord of hosts will visit His flock, the house of Judah, and will make them as a glorious horse in battle.

(Zechariah 10:4) 
From Judah will come the cornerstone, from him the peg, from him the bow of war. From him, will the strength of all of them come forth.

(Zechariah 10:5) 
And they shall be as mighty men, trampling the mire of the streets in battle, and they shall fight, because the Lord is with them.

(Zechariah 10:6) 
And I will strengthen the house of Judah, and I will save the house of Joseph, and I will restore them, because I will have mercy on them, and they shall be as they were before I had cast them off. For I am the Lord their God, and I will hear them.

(Zechariah 10:7) 
And Ephraim shall be as a mighty man, and their heart shall rejoice as if with wine, and their children shall see it, and shall rejoice, and their heart shall be glad in the Lord.

(Zechariah 10:8) 
I will whistle for them, and I will gather them, because I have redeemed them, and I will multiply them as before.

(Zechariah 10:9) 
And I will disperse them among the peoples, and in distant lands they will remember Me, and they shall live with their children, and shall turn back to Me.

(Zechariah 10:10) 
And I will bring them back from the land of Egypt, and I will gather them from Assyria, and I will bring them to the land of Gilead and Lebanon, and there will be no room for them.

(Zechariah 10:11) 
And they shall pass through the sea of tribulation, and He shall strike down the waves in the sea, and all the depths of the river shall be dried up, and the pride of Assyria shall be taken away, and the scepter of Egypt.

(Zechariah 10:12) 
And I will strengthen them in the Lord, and in His name they shall rejoice, says the Lord.

(Zechariah 11:1) 
Open your gates, Lebanon, so the fire will devour your cedars.

(Zechariah 11:2) 
Howl, fir tree, because the cedar has fallen. The mighty are ruined. Howl, oaks of Bashan, because the impenetrable forest has been cut down.

(Zechariah 11:3) 
Listen to the shepherds' cries of grief, because their glory is ruined. Listen to the lions' roaring, because the pride of the Jordan is ruined.

(Zechariah 11:4) 
Thus says the Lord, my God: "Shepherd the flock that is being slaughtered.

(Zechariah 11:5) 
Those who possessed them killed them without regret. Those who sold them said, 'Blessed is the Lord, for we have become rich!' and their shepherds show them no pity.

(Zechariah 11:6) 
Because I will no longer pity the inhabitants of the land, behold, I will cause men to fall into the hands of their neighbors and into the hands of their kings. They will crush the land, and I will not deliver it from their hands."

(Zechariah 11:7) 
So I shepherded the flock that was being slaughtered, that is, the poor of the flock. And I took for myself two staffs: one I named Favor, and the other I named Union. And I tended the flock.

(Zechariah 11:8) 
I dismissed the three shepherds in one month. My soul became impatient with them, and their souls also detested me.

(Zechariah 11:9) 
Then I said, "I will not be your shepherd. Let the dying die, and those who are perishing, perish. Let those who are left devour each other's flesh!"

(Zechariah 11:10) 
Then I took my staff, Favor, and I broke it, because I was breaking the covenant that I had made with all the peoples.

(Zechariah 11:11) 
So it was broken on that day, and the poor of the flock, who were watching me, knew that it was the word of the Lord.

(Zechariah 11:12) 
Then I said to them, "If it seems right to you, give me my wages; and if not, keep them." So they weighed out my wages, thirty pieces of silver.

(Zechariah 11:13) 
And the Lord said to me, "Throw it to the potter”—the price at which they valued me. So I took the thirty pieces of silver and threw them into the house of the Lord, to the potter.

(Zechariah 11:14) 
Then I broke my second staff, Union, to break the brotherhood between Judah and Israel.

(Zechariah 11:15) 
And the Lord said to me: "Take for yourself again the instruments of a worthless shepherd.

(Zechariah 11:16) 
For behold, I am going to raise up a shepherd in the land, who will not care for the lost, nor seek the scattered, nor heal the injured, nor feed the healthy. He will devour the flesh of the fat sheep and tear off their hooves.

(Zechariah 11:17) 
Woe to the worthless shepherd, who abandons the flock! May a sword strike his arm and his right eye! May his arm be utterly withered, and his right eye become utterly dark!"

(Zechariah 12:1) 
This is what the Lord said about the future of the earth. The Lord has set His judgment against the land of Hadrach, and He will bring His rest on Damascus. All of humankind, and all the tribes of Israel, will turn toward the Lord.

(Zechariah 12:2) 
The Lord will also judge Hamath. And the Lord will bring down Tyre and Sidon, along with their wisdom.

(Zechariah 12:3) 
Tyre has built fortresses to protect itself. The people have stored up silver like dirt and gold like mud in the streets.

(Zechariah 12:4) 
The Lord will defeat it, and destroy its power in the sea. And the city of Tyre will be consumed by fire.

(Zechariah 12:5) 
Ashkelon will see the destruction and be afraid. And Gaza will be in agony. And Ekron will be ashamed, for it was wrong to put its hope in itself. And the king of Gaza will be destroyed, and Ashkelon will be deserted.

(Zechariah 12:6) 
Foreigners will live in Ashdod, and I will cut off the pride of the Philistines.

(Zechariah 12:7) 
I will take away the blood from their mouths, and the evil things they eat from their teeth. And their remaining people will belong to the Lord, and they will be like a tribal chief in Judah, and Ekron will be like the Jebusites.

(Zechariah 12:8) 
I will set up My camp to protect My house from the army that comes and goes, and no oppressor will ever pass through them again, for I have seen this with My own eyes.

(Zechariah 12:9) 
Daughter of Zion, be joyful and proclaim the good news! Daughter of Jerusalem, shout! Behold, your king is coming to you, just and victorious! He is meek and riding on a donkey, even on a colt, the foal of a donkey.

(Zechariah 12:10) 
I will remove the chariots from Ephraim, and the horses from Jerusalem, and the weapons of war will be broken. And the king will speak peace to the nations, and his power will stretch from sea to sea, and from the Euphrates River to the ends of the earth.

(Zechariah 12:11) 
I am the one who liberated your prisoners from the waterless pit because of the blood of My covenant.

(Zechariah 12:12) 
Return to your fortress, you prisoners who still have hope. Even today, I will tell you that I will restore to you double what you have lost.

(Zechariah 12:13) 
I will use Judah as My bow. I will fill it with Ephraim like an arrow. I will rouse up your sons, O Zion, against the sons of Greece. And I will make you like a warrior's sword.

(Zechariah 12:14) 
Then the Lord will appear over them. And His arrow will flash like lightning. The Lord God will blow the trumpet. And He will go forth in the tempests of the south.

(Zechariah 12:15) 
The Lord of hosts will protect them. They will eat and will trample on the sling stones. They will drink, and they will be drunk as if they had drunk wine. They will be filled as a bowl is filled, and as the corners of the altar are filled.

(Zechariah 12:16) 
The Lord their God will save them on that day, as the flock of His people, because they are like precious stones. They will shine forth over the land of God.

(Zechariah 12:17) 
How good and beautiful they will be! The grain of the chosen ones will flourish, and the wine will cause young women to grow.

(Zechariah 13:1) 
At that time, a fountain will gush forth for the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, to wash away sin and impurity.

(Zechariah 13:2) 
On that day, says the Lord of hosts, I will destroy the idols from the land. They will never be remembered again. I will take away the false prophets and the spirit of uncleanness from the land.

(Zechariah 13:3) 
If anyone dares to prophesy again, his father and mother, who brought him forth, will say, “You will not live, because you have spoken falsely in the name of the Lord.” His father and mother, who bore him, will pierce him through when he prophesies.

(Zechariah 13:4) 
On that day, the prophets will be ashamed of their visions when they prophesy. They will not wear a hairy cloak to deceive others,

(Zechariah 13:5) 
But rather say, “I am not a prophet; I am a farmer. The land is my inheritance.”

(Zechariah 13:6) 
And if someone asks, “What are these wounds on your body?”, they will reply, “I got these wounds in the house of my friends.”

(Zechariah 13:7) 
Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, and against the man who is my associate, says the Lord of hosts. Strike the shepherd, that the sheep may be scattered, and I will turn my hand against the little ones.

(Zechariah 13:8) 
In all the land, says the Lord, two parts in it will perish and be consumed, but the third part will be left in it.

(Zechariah 13:9) 
I will bring the third part through the fire, and will refine them as silver is refined, and test them as gold is tested. They will call upon my name, and I will hear them. I will say, “They are my people,” and they will say, “The Lord is my God.”

(Zechariah 14:1) 
Behold, the day of the Lord will come, and all the treasures you have will be scattered in your midst.

(Zechariah 14:2) 
I will gather all the nations to Jerusalem for war, and the city will be captured, and the houses will be destroyed, and the women will be raped. Half of the city will be led away into captivity, but the rest of the people will not be taken out of the city.

(Zechariah 14:3) 
Then the Lord will go forth and fight against those nations, as He fought in the day of battle.

(Zechariah 14:4) 
On that day His feet will stand on the Mount of Olives, which is east of Jerusalem. The Mount of Olives will be split in two from east to west, forming a very large valley. Half of the mountain will move toward the north, and half toward the south.

(Zechariah 14:5) 
You will flee into the valley of my mountains, because the valley of the mountains will reach to Azal. You will flee as you fled from the earthquake in the days of Uzziah, king of Judah. Then the Lord my God will come, and all the saints with Him.

(Zechariah 14:6) 
On that day there will be no light, but there will be cold and frost.

(Zechariah 14:7) 
It will be a unique day that is known to the Lord, neither day nor night, but at evening time there will be light.

(Zechariah 14:8) 
On that day, living waters will flow out from Jerusalem, half to the eastern sea and half to the western sea; they will flow in both summer and winter.

(Zechariah 14:9) 
And the Lord will be king over all the earth; on that day the Lord will be one, and His name one.

(Zechariah 14:10) 
The whole land will be turned into a plain, from Geba to Rimmon south of Jerusalem. Jerusalem will be raised up and inhabited in its place, from the Gate of Benjamin to the place of the First Gate, to the Corner Gate, and from the Tower of Hananeel to the king's wine presses.

(Zechariah 14:11) 
People will live in it, and there will be no more curse, but Jerusalem will be secure.

(Zechariah 14:12) 
This will be the plague with which the Lord will strike all the nations that fought against Jerusalem: their flesh will rot while they are still standing, their eyes will rot in their sockets, and their tongues will rot in their mouths.

(Zechariah 14:13) 
On that day a great panic from the Lord will fall on them, so that each one will seize the hand of his neighbor, and his hand will be raised against the hand of his neighbor.

(Zechariah 14:14) 
Judah also will fight at Jerusalem, and all the nations will be gathered against her.

(Zechariah 14:15) 
This will be the plague that strikes the horses, the mules, the camels, the donkeys, and all the animals that are in those camps. The same plague will be on all who enter Jerusalem: their flesh will be consumed, and their eyes will rot in their sockets, and their tongues will rot in their mouths.

(Zechariah 14:16) 
On that day, even the bells on the horses will be inscribed with “holy to the Lord.” The cooking pots in the house of the Lord will be like the bowls before the altar.

(Zechariah 14:17) 
Every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah will be holy to the Lord of hosts, and all who sacrifice will come and take some of the pots to cook in. On that day, there will no longer be any traders in the house of the Lord of hosts.

(Zechariah 14:18) 
On that day, it will be written on the bells of the horses: “Holy to the Lord.” The cooking pots in the house of the Lord will be like the bowls before the altar.

(Zechariah 14:19) 
Every one who is left of all the nations that came against Jerusalem will go up year after year to worship the King, the Lord of hosts, and to celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles.

(Zechariah 14:20) 
If any of the families of the earth do not go up to Jerusalem to worship the King, the Lord of hosts, there will be no rain for them.

(Zechariah 14:21) 
And if the family of Egypt does not go up and come, there will be no rain for them; there will be the plague with which the Lord strikes the nations that do not go up to celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles.

(Zechariah 14:22) 
This will be the punishment of Egypt and of all the nations that do not go up to celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles.

(Zechariah 14:23) 
On that day there will be inscribed on the bells of the horses, “Holy to the Lord.” The cooking pots in the house of the Lord will be like the bowls before the altar.