(2 Maccabees 1:1) 
To the Jewish people in Egypt, from the Jewish people in Judea—greetings, good health, and peace.

(2 Maccabees 1:2) 
We pray that you are well and that all your affairs are flourishing.

(2 Maccabees 1:3) 
In this past year, we have seen King Demetrius in power, wearing the crown, working through his reign, and fighting battles.

(2 Maccabees 1:4) 
We Jewish people in Jerusalem are sending this letter to you, our brothers and sisters in Egypt, with greetings of peace.

(2 Maccabees 1:5) 
The Lord saved us from great danger, and we give Him great praise.

(2 Maccabees 1:6) 
Demetrius's enemies and his allies attacked us, engaging in battles.

(2 Maccabees 1:7) 
But our God did not abandon us; rather, He freed us from these dangers.

(2 Maccabees 1:8) 
When we fought, God was with us. Our enemies were defeated.

(2 Maccabees 1:9) 
In Jerusalem, the leaders and their armies were advancing towards the city.

(2 Maccabees 1:10) 
When they came near the battle, we cried out to the Lord, and He sent a great voice of thunder and an earthquake.

(2 Maccabees 1:11) 
The earth was shaken. They were terrified and fled.

(2 Maccabees 1:12) 
God threw them into confusion, and many of them were killed by their own soldiers.

(2 Maccabees 1:13) 
We took their spoils and killed more than twenty thousand men.

(2 Maccabees 1:14) 
We know that you are always acting kindly towards us, and towards all who live according to the Law, and who fight for the Law. We are always acting kindly towards you.

(2 Maccabees 1:15) 
And we also know that the wicked priest Menelaus sent Heliodorus, who was sent by King Seleucus to plunder the Temple.

(2 Maccabees 1:16) 
We were present in the city at that time, and we know the customs of the city, and what was happening.

(2 Maccabees 1:17) 
For when he was in Jerusalem, he appeared, and was present, and came from God Himself.

(2 Maccabees 1:18) 
While he was praying with the crowd, some men appeared to him who had never been seen before; they were in gold and wearing magnificent robes.

(2 Maccabees 1:19) 
Standing and speaking to Heliodorus and his companions, they said,

(2 Maccabees 1:20) 
“Heliodorus, obey this law.”

(2 Maccabees 1:21) 
When all the men who were with him were present, they were terrified and were on the verge of death. They were hopeful and prayed to the Most High not to destroy them.

(2 Maccabees 1:22) 
When he had gone forward, they were afraid and died. Those mentioned above, along with those present, then appeared in prayer to the Most High.

(2 Maccabees 1:23) 
Then a man appeared, saying to Heliodorus and his companions, and to those who had brought him,

(2 Maccabees 1:24) 
“Those present, believing and fearing, then joined with those who were with him.”

(2 Maccabees 1:25) 
When they arrived, they were with those who were believers. Then, in this moment, He was with them.

(2 Maccabees 1:26) 
When in Jerusalem, he saw the vision. From that place, and from Jerusalem, the vision was for all time.

(2 Maccabees 1:27) 
And we preach about Him, and we preach about you—according to the time. And in the present time, we preach about you, and in you, and in you, and in you.

(2 Maccabees 1:28) 
And because it has happened, and in Jerusalem it happened. The events have been fulfilled in every way.

(2 Maccabees 1:29) 
And in all of the events, the events, and the events, and in all things. The events, the events, the events, and the events.

(2 Maccabees 1:30) 
When they saw it, and when they saw it, and that which was, and that which was, and in which, and in which, and in which, and in which, and in which, and in which, and in which, and in which.

(2 Maccabees 1:31) 
For Heliodorus, and those who were with him, were there, and were there, and were there, in Jerusalem, and in Jerusalem.

(2 Maccabees 1:32) 
And in the days, and in the days, and in the days, and in the days, and in the days, and in the days, and in the days, and in the days, and in the days, and in the days.

(2 Maccabees 1:33) 
To you, and from all, and from all, and from all, and from all, and from all, and from all, and from all, and from all, and from all.

(2 Maccabees 1:34) 
Therefore, knowing and believing in the Lord always, and with God, and believing, and believing, and believing.

(2 Maccabees 1:35) 
And that with, and with, and with, and with, and with, and with, and with, and with, and with, and with.

(2 Maccabees 1:36) 
To you, and in all things, and in all things, and in all things, and in all things, and in all things, and in all things, and in all things, and in all things, and in all things.

(2 Maccabees 2:1) 
The books of Nehemiah and the Acts of the Kings contain these same accounts, along with the writings about the kings and the prophets, and the accounts of David.

(2 Maccabees 2:2) 
The first book, that is, the book of Nehemiah, contains the history and the accounts of the kings, as well as the writings of the prophets.

(2 Maccabees 2:3) 
I collected the accounts of the kings, the writings of the prophets, and the accounts of David, and the sacred gifts of the kings.

(2 Maccabees 2:4) 
The books of those who wrote about David and the acts of Solomon are available.

(2 Maccabees 2:5) 
Thus, a history was compiled to instruct those who want to learn and those who are abroad.

(2 Maccabees 2:6) 
Both the author and those who carefully researched it, took great care.

(2 Maccabees 2:7) 
For not all writings, as in these, should be presented in this way, especially the historical accounts, because of the events described.

(2 Maccabees 2:8) 
The author then sent a short treatise, and he included those things that were relevant to the matter in order to be brief.

(2 Maccabees 2:9) 
Diligence must be given to those who read, but to those who write, the ability to speak and the diligence of investigation into the subject itself.

(2 Maccabees 2:10) 
Therefore, we will now discuss what should be done with these things, and having made this preface, we will begin the present discourse.

(2 Maccabees 2:11) 
When Judas Maccabeus waged war, he chose to honor his fallen soldiers, and he secretly sent some of his friends to retrieve the bones of those who had fallen.

(2 Maccabees 2:12) 
They were brought under their tunics, and they carried them to Jerusalem.

(2 Maccabees 2:13) 
And they placed them in the tombs of their fathers, in a place that was revealed to them.

(2 Maccabees 2:14) 
On the day of the feast, when the children of Israel were rejoicing, they prayed and implored that the sins which had been committed would be forgiven.

(2 Maccabees 2:15) 
Judas and the leaders, along with the people, prayed and implored that sin would be blotted out completely.

(2 Maccabees 2:16) 
For the glorious deeds and the valiant actions in war, the Jews and their brothers, did not seek honor, but faith.

(2 Maccabees 2:17) 
For they saw it as good and honorable to fight to the death and to give their lives for those things that pertain to God.

(2 Maccabees 2:18) 
Therefore, as we were writing the remaining works from Jason of Cyrene, and from those things that especially pertain to Judas, we ourselves, for the sake of brevity, have made this preface.

(2 Maccabees 2:19) 
Jason of Cyrene wrote five books about Judas Maccabeus and his brothers, about the purification of the great temple, the consecration of the altar, the wars against King Antiochus Epiphanes, and the cause for liberty.

(2 Maccabees 2:20) 
And about those things that were done against him and those who were with him, and about the things that were accomplished.

(2 Maccabees 2:21) 
And about the battles against the Greeks in Persia, and in the place called Garisa, and other such events, he includes all of these things individually.

(2 Maccabees 2:22) 
Therefore, we attempt to summarize these events in a short form, and we give our attention to those who wrote and those who read.

(2 Maccabees 2:23) 
And I say this to the reader, and to those who read, so that they may be able to understand more easily.

(2 Maccabees 2:24) 
And we will say these things at the end, as in the beginning, and in the middle, and in the end.

(2 Maccabees 3:1) 
While the holy city was living in peace, and the laws were being observed in the best way possible due to piety, there was hatred because of evil.

(2 Maccabees 3:2) 
It happened that some of the citizens, specifically Philip, a man from the region of Syria, and the same man put in charge of the city, became very angry; but also Jason with his followers, who wickedly corrupted the just law and a holy life,

(2 Maccabees 3:3) 
were commanding that the holy temple in Jerusalem be moved, and that the sacred offerings, money, and revenues, which had been given by holy men, and which were provided by good men, be taken away.

(2 Maccabees 3:4) 
The one who was in charge, Onias, who was placed in charge as the High Priest, and a good and gentle man, and who hated evil, said

(2 Maccabees 3:5) 
to King Ptolemy, who was in Alexandria, that he would rebuke these men for the illegal things they had done.

(2 Maccabees 3:6) 
But when they arrived, and remained in the same city, by the providence of God, men were sent from the people, to handle the business of money.

(2 Maccabees 3:7) 
When they came to Philip and his associates, they were asked to give money for the business, and they immediately begged them not to do anything unjust.

(2 Maccabees 3:8) 
But because they insisted on this, and spoke against all the requests, then Onias, who was in charge as the High Priest, shouted, saying, "These are the ones who were insulting the temples in Jerusalem, and stealing the money of the poor"

(2 Maccabees 3:9) 
for which reason, they and their children, who were righteous according to the holy law, and with Onias, the High Priest, and others who were of the priesthood.

(2 Maccabees 3:10) 
Then Philip and his associates, because they were not able to achieve anything concerning this matter, struck them with anger, and sent all of them, who had spoken against the evil, to Ptolemy.

(2 Maccabees 3:11) 
When the king was angry with them, and ordered the wicked to be tortured, and that they should be scourged in Jerusalem, and he gave them all those things, except for what they had wickedly done in the city,

(2 Maccabees 3:12) 
But Onias, when he heard that they were suffering unjustly, begged and pleaded for them, because they were from the people, and he pleaded for them.

(2 Maccabees 3:13) 
This is the very same thing that happened in Jerusalem, it came to pass, while Heliodorus, appointed by King Seleucus, and placed in charge of the treasury, was entering the city in order to receive the money.

(2 Maccabees 3:14) 
And when he approached, with the whole army, and with the intent of the city, Heliodorus was seen, who was appointed by the king, and with the power to do evil.

(2 Maccabees 3:15) 
However, the priests and the whole multitude were present at prayer, and they were calling upon Him, who gave the law, and for those who preserved holy things.

(2 Maccabees 3:16) 
Then the High Priest, and all the multitude, with tears, and with prayer, begged that he who was appointed, should be saved, and that he who had been sent to do the work, would be preserved.

(2 Maccabees 3:17) 
But Heliodorus was already at the entrance to the treasuries, with the guard, and the custodians, who were around him.

(2 Maccabees 3:18) 
Then a man appeared to him in a frightening way, with terrible glory, and with weapons, he commanded that he rush into battle, and they struck him very severely.

(2 Maccabees 3:19) 
And when he thought he would enter more boldly, the treasuries, they came to him with scourges, and struck him, and threw him on the ground, with great fear.

(2 Maccabees 3:20) 
Those who were around him, then, and his limbs were bound, and he was tied up, so that he should do completely what he was ordered to do by the king.

(2 Maccabees 3:21) 
However, while he was lying on the ground, and enduring the most harsh torments, it happened that he himself was being forced to do all things.

(2 Maccabees 3:22) 
Meanwhile, while those in the temple were rejoicing, the whole multitude, and they were worshipping the all-powerful God, who saved the glory, who works miracles for everything.

(2 Maccabees 3:23) 
Heliodorus, however, when he had fallen, and was not able to rise, was sent with his companions, and they carried him, as if he were already dead.

(2 Maccabees 3:24) 
When they were in the place, and Heliodorus with his companions were at the king's garrison, then, those who had done this, asked him about those who had done this, and about the things he had done, and about the things he had carried out.

(2 Maccabees 3:25) 
However, he himself answered in their sight, that he seemed to be through the force of violence, and that it was as had been spoken by God.

(2 Maccabees 3:26) 
For when he was with the soldiers, who were around him, two very excellent young men appeared to him, and of great glory, who stood over him, and struck him very severely.

(2 Maccabees 3:27) 
And they who are in sight came to him, and in his eyes, and who then struck him.

(2 Maccabees 3:28) 
Therefore, when they were in the place, and in these things, all of those who were there, glorified the Lord, because he did wonderful things.

(2 Maccabees 3:29) 
However, those who were in the place, glorified God, and gave the gifts of thanks, in the temple, and to those who had been saved, for Heliodorus, who was dead.

(2 Maccabees 3:30) 
Heliodorus, however, promised to God, who was life, and saved him, and all those things that had come, and all those things that had been done, and had now perished, gave his hand to them.

(2 Maccabees 3:31) 
Onias, however, when he was no longer in life, and congratulated him on what God had saved him, and what he had given to him.

(2 Maccabees 3:32) 
Then the king, when he arrived at him, and at the Hebrews, who were from Jerusalem, and who were with great glory, and with great glory in peace, and gave them gifts of every kind, and blessed God.

(2 Maccabees 3:33) 
But also Onias, who was in charge as High Priest, who had been saved, prayed for all the people, and gave them peace, and gave them peace.

(2 Maccabees 4:1) 
It happened that when Antiochus, also called Epiphanes, entered the city, he wanted to quickly expel Heliodorus from his position. Heliodorus had returned without fulfilling his orders.

(2 Maccabees 4:2) 
Therefore, he sent Lysias, the commander of his army and the administrator of his affairs, to remove Heliodorus from his position.

(2 Maccabees 4:3) 
Upon hearing this, Heliodorus went to Ptolemais, gathered a large crowd there, and prepared to use deceit.

(2 Maccabees 4:4) 
For he brought forth accusations before the king against those of the city who were wicked.

(2 Maccabees 4:5) 
These were Jason and those with him who practiced impiety and drove out their fellow citizens.

(2 Maccabees 4:6) 
Nor was there innocent blood which did not cry out to God for vengeance.

(2 Maccabees 4:7) 
Therefore, immediately Lysias, encouraging the people, accused Ptolemais of the evils committed against the city.

(2 Maccabees 4:8) 
And he accused the king of all these things.

(2 Maccabees 4:9) 
Then Antiochus, enraged, immediately heeded the advice of Lysias.

(2 Maccabees 4:10) 
And he appointed Jason, without delay, to punish those who had attacked and to inflict punishment on the citizens.

(2 Maccabees 4:11) 
When Jason arrived, as soon as he appeared, he struck his own brothers and drove his enemies into exile.

(2 Maccabees 4:12) 
And he did not have power in the kingdom, nor great honor.

(2 Maccabees 4:13) 
Then Menelaus, as mentioned before, the brother of Jason, sold himself to the prince, through much money, and swore to be the king's friend.

(2 Maccabees 4:14) 
He sent Jason into the city with three men from the city.

(2 Maccabees 4:15) 
When they received the king's letters, they went to the king and explained the matter to him.

(2 Maccabees 4:16) 
Then Menelaus, in the absence of Jason, promised three hundred talents of silver, and seventy talents from other gifts, from every promise that was given.

(2 Maccabees 4:17) 
And he sought to obtain the priestly office.

(2 Maccabees 4:18) 
Therefore, the king gave it to Menelaus, and he took on the priestly office, ordering that Jason be brought to trial from the city.

(2 Maccabees 4:19) 
And he sent Jason to the city, sending him letters concerning what he had done and what he had accomplished.

(2 Maccabees 4:20) 
When he arrived, he was brought in by Menelaus, and when the people heard this, they immediately became angry at Jason and killed him.

(2 Maccabees 4:21) 
And Menelaus succeeded to the priesthood, yet he did not fulfill any priestly duties, nor did he care for the laws, nor did he consider judgments, but he did everything according to the will and pleasure of the king.

(2 Maccabees 4:22) 
Then Menelaus went with those who were wicked from the city, and they sent to the king and put them to death in the city.

(2 Maccabees 4:23) 
And when they came, many from the city were delivered to punishment, and the blood of many was shed because of the anger that had come from Jason's impiety.

(2 Maccabees 4:24) 
Antiochus, while preparing for an expedition into Egypt, heard that a disturbance had occurred in the city of Jerusalem.

(2 Maccabees 4:25) 
And that those who were with Jason had fled the city and had acted injuriously in the holy temple.

(2 Maccabees 4:26) 
When he heard this, he thought Egypt had been conquered, and he went up in a rage and seized the city, and ordered his soldiers not to spare anyone in the city and to kill those who were encountered.

(2 Maccabees 4:27) 
And entering the temple, he stole the gold and silver vessels, the utensils, and all the treasures he found there.

(2 Maccabees 4:28) 
And taking everything, he went back to his own land and committed a great slaughter.

(2 Maccabees 4:29) 
And there was great mourning and lamentation in Israel.

(2 Maccabees 4:30) 
And there were the leaders and elders who mourned and were grieved in spirit, and who sat at the gates of the city, who were distressed and filled with sorrow.

(2 Maccabees 4:31) 
It happened that those in the city, and those in the mountains, who were also robbers, and who had taken plunder, and all those in the city who had gathered to fight, and who were impious, and who did every evil deed.

(2 Maccabees 4:32) 
And the king ordered them to be in the temple, to be struck and killed, and those who were over all, and those in the temple who had killed, were killed, and then they came to war.

(2 Maccabees 4:33) 
And there were many of the impious over them, who were also wounded, and those who were in the city, and those who were in the temple, who were also killed.

(2 Maccabees 4:34) 
And he ordered throughout all the cities that all those who were in the city should make sacrifices and offer to idols.

(2 Maccabees 4:35) 
And from the temple in Jerusalem, they took away the altar and burned it, and they made seats, statues, and idols in it.

(2 Maccabees 4:36) 
And they sacrificed pigs on the altar and poured out blood, and there was no one to bury the dead.

(2 Maccabees 4:37) 
And great disgrace was cast upon them, and a great abomination was committed against Israel.

(2 Maccabees 4:38) 
And many fled from the city and left their wives, children, brothers, and parents, and went into the mountains, to hiding places, to caves, and to other solitary places.

(2 Maccabees 4:39) 
Then there were many who were dying and lying in the city and in the mountains.

(2 Maccabees 4:40) 
And great wrath was poured out upon them, and a great judgment took place.

(2 Maccabees 4:41) 
And Judas Maccabeus and those who were with him, on the mountain, and those who were with him, to fight against the impious, and to fight, and to strike, and to kill.

(2 Maccabees 4:42) 
And they gathered together and placed each one in his place, and they took up arms and said, "It is better for us to die than to see the wickedness of the wicked and the holy things defiled."

(2 Maccabees 4:43) 
And they went to war with the impious and killed them.

(2 Maccabees 4:44) 
And quickly the impious fled from their presence.

(2 Maccabees 4:45) 
And they pursued them and killed and destroyed the impious, and they took vengeance from their hands, and they purified the holy things.

(2 Maccabees 4:46) 
And they purified the temple, the altar, and all the vessels, and they hung up in it those things that were defiled.

(2 Maccabees 4:47) 
And they offered in it the burnt offering, praise, and glory, and they said, "Lord, Lord God, who made the universe and the earth, and who is the Lord of all things."

(2 Maccabees 4:48) 
Send now your spirit and sanctify us, and send your light and strike those who are impious and their deeds.

(2 Maccabees 4:49) 
And after these things, they pursued and established, and they took vengeance on all the nations, and they killed the impious.

(2 Maccabees 4:50) 
And after this, they had peace, and they did all things according to the law of God.

(2 Maccabees 5:1) 
Around this time, Antiochus came back from Persia and arrived in the city of Antioch.

(2 Maccabees 5:2) 
And when he entered, he wanted to go into the temple, and his enemies attacked him, causing a disturbance.

(2 Maccabees 5:3) 
Because he was forbidden to enter, he became angry and departed.

(2 Maccabees 5:4) 
Upon his return, his fury flared, and he ordered the Jewish temple to be struck without pause.

(2 Maccabees 5:5) 
Then, many people came out and gathered around him.

(2 Maccabees 5:6) 
He commanded the men to be prepared. Quickly they entered and struck the city, killing many.

(2 Maccabees 5:7) 
They seized many spoils and set the city on fire.

(2 Maccabees 5:8) 
They demolished homes and tore down the surrounding walls.

(2 Maccabees 5:9) 
They took women and children captive and seized livestock.

(2 Maccabees 5:10) 
In the Holy Temple, they plundered the gold, silver, and valuable vessels they found there.

(2 Maccabees 5:11) 
They took everything and went back to their own land, causing great slaughter.

(2 Maccabees 5:12) 
There was great mourning in Israel.

(2 Maccabees 5:13) 
The leaders and elders groaned; young men and girls mourned; and the women lost their beauty.

(2 Maccabees 5:14) 
Every groom assumed the lament, and the bride was as if in mourning.

(2 Maccabees 5:15) 
The lands trembled because of their inhabitants, and the whole house of Jacob was confounded.

(2 Maccabees 5:16) 
After two years, the king sent a tax collector to the cities of Judea, and he came to Jerusalem with a large multitude.

(2 Maccabees 5:17) 
He spoke words of peace, but he deceived them. He struck the city with a great plague.

(2 Maccabees 5:18) 
He killed many of the people and scattered their spoils.

(2 Maccabees 5:19) 
He took away the ornaments of Jerusalem and put them in his own cities, and he destroyed Jerusalem.

(2 Maccabees 5:20) 
He led women and children into captivity and took possession of the livestock.

(2 Maccabees 5:21) 
They built a city of David with a large, strong wall, solid towers, and it became a citadel for them.

(2 Maccabees 5:22) 
They placed a sinful people there, wicked men; and they established themselves within it.

(2 Maccabees 5:23) 
They put weapons there, gathered food, stored arms there, and they uttered blasphemies, making it a snare for them.

(2 Maccabees 5:24) 
They spread out before the temple, surrounded it on all sides, and it became a wicked enemy to them.

(2 Maccabees 5:25) 
They poured out the blood of the innocent around the sanctuary, and the sanctuary was defiled, and the sons of strangers were around the temple, and the gentiles lived with the prostitutes and worked with them.

(2 Maccabees 5:26) 
The Jews were not allowed to enter, nor to observe the law or the commandments of God, because of their wickedness.

(2 Maccabees 5:27) 
Also, all of its honor was taken away, and all its glory was turned into disgrace.

(2 Maccabees 5:28) 
And the temple of the gentiles was full of luxury, banquets, and fornications. Women were with the gentiles in the temple, and things were done both around and within the sacred things that were forbidden.

(2 Maccabees 5:29) 
And the heart of Judah was troubled, and as he departed from the temple, the whole city was full of confusion.

(2 Maccabees 5:30) 
And all the streets resounded with the voice of those crying out, and everyone groaned together.

(2 Maccabees 6:1) 
Not long after, the king sent elders from Athens to force the Jews to abandon their ancestral laws and to cease living according to God’s laws:

(2 Maccabees 6:2) 
They were to defile the Temple in Jerusalem, dedicating it to foreign gods, setting up altars and temples for those gods, and offering unclean pigs as sacrifices.

(2 Maccabees 6:3) 
When this happened, many in the Jewish population agreed with them, offering sacrifices to idols and violating the Sabbath.

(2 Maccabees 6:4) 
The king sent written commands by messengers to Jerusalem and the cities of Judea, ordering them to follow practices that were foreign to their ancestral laws.

(2 Maccabees 6:5) 
They forced the people and gave them the commands to offer sacrifices to idols, defiling themselves through the sacrifices.

(2 Maccabees 6:6) 
But those who remained in Judea, and who were left behind, faced great tribulations because no one had the ability to escape from a given place.

(2 Maccabees 6:7) 
When this happened, many Jews agreed with them and sacrificed to idols in every way, profaning the Sabbath.

(2 Maccabees 6:8) 
Afterward, he brought about the deaths of many who did not agree, but persevered in Judaism and forbade such practices.

(2 Maccabees 6:9) 
On the fifteenth day of the month of Casleu, in the one hundred and forty-fifth year, they built the abominable idol in the Temple and in the cities of Judea all around.

(2 Maccabees 6:10) 
They sacrificed on the day of the idol’s birth and on the first day of each month, according to the king's command, at the altar.

(2 Maccabees 6:11) 
Those in Jerusalem were forced to pretend and to offer sacrifices, crowning themselves for Bacchus.

(2 Maccabees 6:12) 
But there was great sorrow over Israel.

(2 Maccabees 6:13) 
For those who pretended did not refuse to eat the unclean things.

(2 Maccabees 6:14) 
Therefore, many Jews fled to hide themselves and to attack those who were doing those things.

(2 Maccabees 6:15) 
And on the ninth day of the month of Casleu, in the one hundred and forty-fifth year, they rose up to offer sacrifices, sacrificing at the altar that was above the altar and they killed according to the king's command.

(2 Maccabees 6:16) 
The women who had circumcised their sons made themselves known, and they were hung by the neck throughout the city.

(2 Maccabees 6:17) 
And they destroyed others along with their families and those who were with them, and they killed them on every day.

(2 Maccabees 6:18) 
So, many Israelites decided in their hearts not to eat unclean things.

(2 Maccabees 6:19) 
They chose to die rather than to be defiled by food and to violate the holy law and so they died.

(2 Maccabees 6:20) 
And great wrath came upon them.

(2 Maccabees 6:21) 
Two women were also brought forth because they had circumcised their sons.

(2 Maccabees 6:22) 
When they seized their sons, they hung the women from their breasts, ripped them open, and killed their sons at the same time.

(2 Maccabees 6:23) 
But others, along with their sons, gave themselves up, and they died frequently.

(2 Maccabees 6:24) 
Then, the Lord was angry with them, because their sins were the cause.

(2 Maccabees 6:25) 
But Machabeus gathered those who were with him, hiding in the mountains and forests, and he struck those who were in Judea, attacking those who were against them.

(2 Maccabees 7:1) 
This also happened: Seven brothers and their mother were arrested. The king tortured them with whips and cords to force them to eat pork, which the Law forbade.

(2 Maccabees 7:2) 
But the first brother said: "What do you want to know from us? We are ready to die rather than disobey the laws of our fathers."

(2 Maccabees 7:3) 
The enraged king commanded the fires and frying pans to be heated. He then ordered the brothers to be tortured by their tongues, hands, and feet.

(2 Maccabees 7:4) 
While they were enduring this torture, the other brothers said: "What are you looking for? What do you want to know? We are ready to die."

(2 Maccabees 7:5) 
The second brother, at the point of death by torture, said: "You wicked man, you may end our present life, but the King of the universe will raise us up again to eternal life because we die for His laws."

(2 Maccabees 7:6) 
After him, the third brother, who was mocked, quickly extended his tongue, and his hands with a courageous boldness, saying: "I received these from God, and because of His laws I despise them; and I hope to receive them again."

(2 Maccabees 7:7) 
Even the king and those with him were amazed at the youths' resolve. They despised the tortures and threw away their present life.

(2 Maccabees 7:8) 
When the third brother died, the fourth was tortured in the same way. As he was at the point of death, he said: "It is good to die at the hands of men, but we have hope of being raised again by God. But for you, there will be no resurrection to life."

(2 Maccabees 7:9) 
Then they brought the fifth brother and tortured him. But he, looking at the king, said: "Although you have the power of men, you are corruptible and you do what you will. Do not think that our race has been abandoned by God:"

(2 Maccabees 7:10) 
Hold on and see His great works, and how He will test them and punish you."

(2 Maccabees 7:11) 
Then the sixth brother said, as he was dying: "Do not be mistaken: for we suffer these things for ourselves because we have sinned against God, for which reason these wonders have happened to us."

(2 Maccabees 7:12) 
The mother was even more marvelous and worthy of memory. For she, when she saw one day in the presence of her seven sons dying, endured this courageously, and with a good spirit, she had hope in the Lord.

(2 Maccabees 7:13) 
Exhorting each of them in their native language, with wisdom, she united the youths’ understanding in piety. Saying: "I do not know how you appeared in my womb: for I did not give you spirit, soul, and sense, nor did I form each of you."

(2 Maccabees 7:14) 
But the Creator of the universe, who formed the birth of man, and who is the inventor of all things, He will restore spirit and life to you in mercy, just as you now despise your souls because of His laws."

(2 Maccabees 7:15) 
Antiochus, however, thought that he was being scorned, and suspected words of reproach. He tried to persuade the remaining son not only with words, but also with an oath, and with friendship, kindness, riches, and authority, and by making him renounce the laws.

(2 Maccabees 7:16) 
But since he did not care about anything, he summoned the mother and exhorted her to follow the youth’s advice and persuade him for his safety.

(2 Maccabees 7:17) 
But the mother, as he was persuading him much, and he was not obeying her, said: "My son, have mercy on me, who carried you for nine months in my womb, and nursed and raised you up to this age, and provided for you."

(2 Maccabees 7:18) 
I beg you, son, look at the universe and the earth, and everything in them, and consider: and know that God made them from nothing, and the race of men."

(2 Maccabees 7:19) 
So, do not fear this executioner, but, being worthy of your brothers, accept death so that I may receive you in mercy."

(2 Maccabees 7:20) 
While she was speaking these things, the youth said: "What are you waiting for? For I do these things, not obeying the commands of the fathers, but of God."

(2 Maccabees 7:21) 
And immediately, he was tortured, so that he might also die. As he died, he said: "Dying at the hands of men, but through the hope of resurrection from God, I am going to eternal life. But as for you, may you never rise again."

(2 Maccabees 7:22) 
After the brothers and the mother, he said: "But I, through the power of Him, am with you, and with the seed of my brothers, and with their souls."

(2 Maccabees 7:23) 
After these words, they and the mother received death in various ways.

(2 Maccabees 8:1) 
Judas Maccabaeus and his soldiers secretly entered the fortresses and called together their relatives. They gathered about six thousand men, including those who remained loyal in Judea and those who had deserted to join them.

(2 Maccabees 8:2) 
They prayed to the Lord to look with favor on the people and to see the injury they were suffering.

(2 Maccabees 8:3) 
They said to Maccabaeus: “What shall we do, now that God has given our enemies such power, to attack us?”

(2 Maccabees 8:4) 
Maccabaeus said in response: “Let us pray and call on the Lord. He may, perhaps, relent. He will do whatever He wishes, and if He doesn't, then He does as He wills.”

(2 Maccabees 8:5) 
After gathering the army and preparing for battle, he said: “It is better to die in battle than to see the evils of our people and our holy places.”

(2 Maccabees 8:6) 
This was the will of heaven.

(2 Maccabees 8:7) 
Then, exhorting them and giving them the watchword, he placed the most valiant men, fifty to a company, and put them in charge.

(2 Maccabees 8:8) 
He told them, “Don’t be afraid in this battle. Let us fight for our souls and avenge ourselves.”

(2 Maccabees 8:9) 
He gave the signal, and they attacked Nicanor in the center, who immediately fell in battle.

(2 Maccabees 8:10) 
They fell together with the majority of the Syrian army, and the rest fled.

(2 Maccabees 8:11) 
They captured their spoils. They cut off Nicanor's head and his hand, which he had so proudly raised. They brought them and hung them near the fortress of Jerusalem.

(2 Maccabees 8:12) 
The Jews greatly rejoiced and glorified this day, and they decreed that this day should be celebrated annually.

(2 Maccabees 8:13) 
Then, gathering together, they said, “May God be praised, for He saves His people.”

(2 Maccabees 8:14) 
They attacked and struck down those who were with Timothy and Bacchides, who were besieging them. They inflicted a great defeat, and the enemy were wounded and fled.

(2 Maccabees 8:15) 
Judas Maccabaeus stationed men in Jerusalem, who were besieging the fortress. He also stationed men in Gazara, Beth-zur, and the fortress. And he put others in charge of other locations.

(2 Maccabees 8:16) 
Timothy and Bacchides then sent their troops to fight against the Jews and they met in battle.

(2 Maccabees 8:17) 
In the battle that followed, about twenty thousand men of Timothy’s army were killed.

(2 Maccabees 8:18) 
But Timothy himself escaped with a few men, and they came to a certain fortress called Gazara, where Chereas was.

(2 Maccabees 8:19) 
Then the Jewish leaders with Maccabaeus laid siege to the fortress for twenty days, with a great assault.

(2 Maccabees 8:20) 
They set up siege towers, war machines, and catapults and they assaulted the place.

(2 Maccabees 8:21) 
Those inside fell into their hands. They set fire to the fortress and burned those inside, and they fell.

(2 Maccabees 8:22) 
Then they went to another fortress and fought against Timothy, who was there.

(2 Maccabees 8:23) 
He gathered about one hundred and twenty thousand men from his army and put him and the others with him in battle.

(2 Maccabees 8:24) 
They fought against Maccabaeus, and as they were about to begin, about twenty thousand men of Timothy’s army were killed. Timothy fled to a fortress where his brother Chereas was.

(2 Maccabees 8:25) 
Then Maccabaeus and those with him besieged the fortress and struck it.

(2 Maccabees 8:26) 
Fearing them, Timothy immediately sent to them, promising to release them and all their possessions, and he swore he would never harm them in any way.

(2 Maccabees 8:27) 
Maccabaeus let them go, but not according to the promise. He killed Chereas, his brother, and Timothy, and he gave the fortress to the citizens.

(2 Maccabees 8:28) 
After this victory they went to Caraca and Charecensi, and to the Jews who were in that place. They thought they were not loyal, and they tried to attack them.

(2 Maccabees 8:29) 
But those inside, seeing their enemies fighting against them, cried out to Maccabaeus, begging him, and saying, “We are righteous, and we are not your enemies.”

(2 Maccabees 8:30) 
Crying out they gave testimony, saying, “We call God as our witness, and we are faithful to you and not to your enemies.”

(2 Maccabees 8:31) 
Maccabaeus received them in friendship and did not cease to harm them, but gathered their people, up to thirty thousand.

(2 Maccabees 8:32) 
He put them to work in the service of the Jews, and he returned with them to Jerusalem and freed the city.

(2 Maccabees 8:33) 
In Jerusalem, he killed those among them who had gone out, because they were in sins and had done evil.

(2 Maccabees 8:34) 
He placed a fortress in Jerusalem with men and fortified it, and they and others guarded it.

(2 Maccabees 8:35) 
And they sent troops to Beth-zur against them and attacked them, and they killed about five thousand men.

(2 Maccabees 8:36) 
Judas, seeing their deeds and their attack, gathered the people to praise the Lord, who saves Israel.

(2 Maccabees 8:37) 
He gathered them and went out against them and struck them.

(2 Maccabees 8:38) 
In the battle, he killed Ptolemy, the son of Dori, and those with him.

(2 Maccabees 8:39) 
He stationed troops in the fortress, and with all of Israel they praised him daily, who is their savior.

(2 Maccabees 9:1) 
So, King Antiochus then departed for the regions of Persia with a great army, because he heard that there was an army in Persia that was resisting him.

(2 Maccabees 9:2) 
For a great problem, which was being handled by the Greeks there, and because there were those in that region who opposed him.

(2 Maccabees 9:3) 
So he departed to Persia with those who were with him, and he heard that there was great wealth in the temple of Nanaea, in Persia.

(2 Maccabees 9:4) 
And he came, and he hoped to take the city, and to obtain the wealth. Because he sent to the city and he obtained it.

(2 Maccabees 9:5) 
So when Antiochus came, and those who were with him, the temple priests immediately came there, and they showed him the reason why they had come.

(2 Maccabees 9:6) 
And they said: “Behold, there is much wealth, which has been entrusted to us. But take it immediately, and do what has been commanded to you.”

(2 Maccabees 9:7) 
And he said, “Immediately, and with haste.” And he arranged it. But when Antiochus entered the temple, and those who were with him, the priests, carrying it, entered.

(2 Maccabees 9:8) 
And when Antiochus, and those who were with him, entered, immediately the temple priests, shouting, and at once in the ashes and on the ground, made a fire.

(2 Maccabees 9:9) 
And when this had been done, and this that was done, they perished, not moderately, and those who were with him, and he was struck by swords, and without fear.

(2 Maccabees 9:10) 
And the whole city, with great exultation, and all who were in it, did it to him.

(2 Maccabees 9:11) 
On the fourth day, he was in great pain, and those who were with him were saddened.

(2 Maccabees 9:12) 
And when this was done, those who were with him, who were his enemies, said: “How powerful and terrifying was this man!”

(2 Maccabees 9:13) 
And Antiochus died, in great pain, and he cried out.

(2 Maccabees 9:14) 
And it happened that many of those who were with him fell, and were killed, and those who were with him. And Philip, who was educated with Antiochus, spoke about his son, and brought him, and he reigned.

(2 Maccabees 9:15) 
And Philip reigned. And he was sick, and troubled, and all who were with him were saddened.

(2 Maccabees 10:1) 
Judas, who was called Maccabeus, and his companions went into the villages secretly, and then arrested those who were there. They gathered those who had not deserted from Judea until they met the forces opposing them.

(2 Maccabees 10:2) 
They called upon the Lord, terrified the surrounding nations, and attacked them. They burned down their fortress and captured it.

(2 Maccabees 10:3) 
When it was time for battle, Judas, forming his company, chose 3,000 men and sent them into battle against Bacchides and his army.

(2 Maccabees 10:4) 
Fearing Bacchides, they withdrew from the camp. Of the 3,000, only 2,680 men remained.

(2 Maccabees 10:5) 
When Judas saw those who had withdrawn, he pursued them.

(2 Maccabees 10:6) 
He turned them to fight, and killed 3,000 men. He then advanced to Bacchides' camp and fought.

(2 Maccabees 10:7) 
Bacchides, fearing his strength, crossed over to the place called Azotus, and then they went with him to fight Judas.

(2 Maccabees 10:8) 
A large crowd gathered and formed a council. They told those with Judas that Judas and his brothers had been killed.

(2 Maccabees 10:9) 
When Judas heard these words, as they were on their way, he said: "There shall be no mercy for me, but we shall break into them."

(2 Maccabees 10:10) 
He fought against them in the city and killed about 20,000 men. The rest they forced to flee into a castle in Azotus.

(2 Maccabees 10:11) 
Taking the spoils, they burned Azotus and everything in it. Then they returned to Judea.

(2 Maccabees 10:12) 
Bacchides and Judas met in the field called Bersa, with Judas having few men.

(2 Maccabees 10:13) 
The men with Judas were exhausted, and when they saw the large crowd, they were afraid and could not stand. Judas and his companions fought to the death.

(2 Maccabees 10:14) 
The men with Judas saw that his brothers and all who were with him had died. They followed them.

(2 Maccabees 10:15) 
They fled into the land.

(2 Maccabees 10:16) 
On the other side, Bacchides and his leaders set up camp and encamped in the land of Judea.

(2 Maccabees 10:17) 
The Jews mourned and said, "How have the strong ones perished, who saved Israel!"

(2 Maccabees 10:18) 
The rest of Judas’ deeds, his wars, and the acts of valor he performed are not written in this book, because they were too great.

(2 Maccabees 10:19) 
After the death of Judas, those who were not pious arose and stirred up all sorts of evil throughout all the borders of Israel.

(2 Maccabees 10:20) 
All wickedness gathered against them. Then those who committed sins arose, and evil conspiracies followed.

(2 Maccabees 10:21) 
A great famine occurred, and the land failed, and all the multitude gathered together. Then Simon rose up, fought for his people, and offered his life for his nation.

(2 Maccabees 10:22) 
He gathered his friends and sent them forth. He gathered those of his own family and strengthened them in justice.

(2 Maccabees 10:23) 
He multiplied the works of the people, and the land was glorified, and all evil was driven out of the land.

(2 Maccabees 10:24) 
He arose in the sight of his people and avenged his nation. He gathered the works of the people and avenged it.

(2 Maccabees 10:25) 
In his days, he prospered in his works and extended his borders.

(2 Maccabees 11:1) 
After this, Judas Maccabaeus and his men entered the villages in secret, and they summoned those in Judea who had not deserted to Philip. And they observed the Sabbath day.

(2 Maccabees 11:2) 
Later, they gathered and made war against Philip. After Philip was defeated and killed with great valor, and the rest who were with him...

(2 Maccabees 11:3) 
Judas and his brothers, along with the best of the Israelites, resolved on that day and followed this course:

(2 Maccabees 11:4) 
They said: “Behold, our enemies are defeated! Let us go up to cleanse the sanctuary and dedicate it.”

(2 Maccabees 11:5) 
Then, the whole multitude gathered and went up to Mount Zion.

(2 Maccabees 11:6) 
They saw the sanctuary deserted, the altar defiled, the gates burned, and plants growing in the courtyards as in a forest or a mountain, and the chambers destroyed.

(2 Maccabees 11:7) 
They tore their garments and mourned with a great lamentation; they put on sackcloth and placed ashes on their heads.

(2 Maccabees 11:8) 
And they fell to the ground and cried out with a loud voice to the universe.

(2 Maccabees 11:9) 
Then Judas ordered the men to fight against those in the fortress until they had cleansed the sanctuary.

(2 Maccabees 11:10) 
He chose priests without blemish and of good will, and they cleansed the sanctuary and removed the stones of defilement to an unclean place.

(2 Maccabees 11:11) 
They considered what to do with the altar of burnt offerings, which had been defiled.

(2 Maccabees 11:12) 
They gave good counsel to tear it down, lest it be reproached to them that the Gentiles had defiled it, and they demolished the altar.

(2 Maccabees 11:13) 
They placed the stones in a fitting place on the mountain of the house until, that is, a prophet should come and give an answer about them.

(2 Maccabees 11:14) 
Then they took whole stones according to the law and built an altar like the former one.

(2 Maccabees 11:15) 
And they built the sanctuary and the interior of the house, and they sanctified the courts.

(2 Maccabees 11:16) 
They made new sacred vessels and brought in the lampstand, the altar of incense, and the table in the temple.

(2 Maccabees 11:17) 
And they burned incense on the altar, and they lit the lamps that were on the lampstand, and they gave light in the temple.

(2 Maccabees 11:18) 
They placed the bread on the table and hung the veils, and they finished the work they had done.

(2 Maccabees 11:19) 
On the twenty-fifth day of the ninth month was the dedication of the temple.

(2 Maccabees 11:20) 
And they offered sacrifices with song, with harps, cymbals, and drums.

(2 Maccabees 11:21) 
And the priests fell on their faces before the temple during the dedication of the temple, and the Levites sang with harps and songs in a great chant.

(2 Maccabees 11:22) 
And all the people adored.

(2 Maccabees 11:23) 
And they sacrificed burnt offerings and offered sacrifices and peace offerings.

(2 Maccabees 11:24) 
And Judas celebrated the dedication of the altar for eight days, and he offered burnt offerings and libations with joy and gladness.

(2 Maccabees 11:25) 
They also renewed the ornaments of the temple itself, both inside and out.

(2 Maccabees 11:26) 
On the twenty-fifth day of the ninth month, in the one hundred and forty-eighth year, they rose early.

(2 Maccabees 11:27) 
And they sacrificed according to the law on the altar of burnt offerings, which they had built.

(2 Maccabees 11:28) 
And according to the time and day when the Gentiles had defiled it, it was dedicated with songs, harps, cymbals, and drums.

(2 Maccabees 11:29) 
And all the people fell on their faces, and adored, and they blessed the one in the universe who had given them success.

(2 Maccabees 11:30) 
And they celebrated the dedication of the altar for eight days in joy, just as they were reminded of the feast of the tabernacles; because recently, they had lived in the tabernacles of the forests and endured wild beasts.

(2 Maccabees 11:31) 
Because of this, they cried out with firm shouts, and they implored the one who had given them success to preserve them to the end.

(2 Maccabees 11:32) 
And Judas and his brothers established for the whole community of the Jews that the days of the dedication of the altar should be celebrated annually with joy and gladness for eight days, at their appointed times.

(2 Maccabees 11:33) 
Moreover, this time, in which they were in Persia, and with King Artaxerxes, and in the time of Maccabaeus...

(2 Maccabees 11:34) 
And they sent letters to the Jews who were in Egypt, to all the provinces of the Jews, greetings from the Jewish brothers—to the Jews who were in Judea, and those who were, greetings.

(2 Maccabees 11:35) 
On the dedication of the altar, and on the twenty-fifth day of the month of Chislev, in the one hundred and forty-eighth year...

(2 Maccabees 11:36) 
We declare all the events that occurred in Maccabees and with his companions, and of their strength and great endurance.

(2 Maccabees 11:37) 
How they affected the Jews in war, and how they fought with courage for the Jewish law, how, for that reason, they were enemies, and how they purified the holy temple and the sanctuary, and they dedicated the altar.

(2 Maccabees 11:38) 
And we will narrate what was done about the others, and about these, in those same times.

(2 Maccabees 11:39) 
And let these things have been said in words; now, therefore, we will bring the speech to an end.

(2 Maccabees 12:1) 
But Judas Maccabaeus and his men prayed to the Lord, begging Him to send an enemy against their enemies.

(2 Maccabees 12:2) 
A surprise attack was launched against them, in which many were wounded, and the rest fled to the mountains.

(2 Maccabees 12:3) 
Then Simon, who was one of their leaders, took his men, and selecting some of their number, he sent them to the king to bring him into the mountains.

(2 Maccabees 12:4) 
He prepared a path for his men, anticipating the enemy, and rushed upon them.

(2 Maccabees 12:5) 
Those with Timothy saw this and, filled with fear, took refuge.

(2 Maccabees 12:6) 
They cried out to him and begged him to let them pass safely, for they were afraid.

(2 Maccabees 12:7) 
So he went to them and made peace with them, and they swore an oath that they would not cause any trouble.

(2 Maccabees 12:8) 
He struck Timothy and his men, and his brother Chereas, and the rest, and pursued them.

(2 Maccabees 12:9) 
They were prepared for war, and they gave battle from an ambush, and about twenty thousand men were killed.

(2 Maccabees 12:10) 
Timothy himself, and to his place, sent to prepare, and to another place against them.

(2 Maccabees 12:11) 
But Maccabaeus and those with him, divided into two groups, attacked those who were prepared, and they fought: and they were wounded, and the rest fled to the fortified places.

(2 Maccabees 12:12) 
They captured Timothy there, and his brother Chereas, and Apollonius. And after this they killed them, and wounded many with swords.

(2 Maccabees 12:13) 
Now the Passover was in the month of Xanti, and when it came, they celebrated it.

(2 Maccabees 12:14) 
After this, they went to a fortress that was under the mountains, named Garizim, and they killed many of those who were in it.

(2 Maccabees 12:15) 
And at this time, those who were in Bethsura, having been in the garrison, took refuge against them, and they prayed to the Lord.

(2 Maccabees 12:16) 
And they fought against them, and gave them their hand: and at this time, there were those who were reproached by the impious among them.

(2 Maccabees 12:17) 
And they celebrated the holy things with their garrisons, and there were those who were from Bethsura.

(2 Maccabees 12:18) 
For it was the day of celebrating the holy things, in the month of Xanti, and in the month before that, which we mentioned before.

(2 Maccabees 12:19) 
Now those who were in Jerusalem followed those who had been in Galilee, who in the same month of Xanti, were celebrating.

(2 Maccabees 12:20) 
And after rising up, they surrounded the camp of Judas, who had fought, and after this.

(2 Maccabees 12:21) 
And they came to Jerusalem, and supplicating, they prayed that they might be worthy, and with virtue, and to the end they would arrive.

(2 Maccabees 12:22) 
And after this, they went to the camp, and in it, were those who were against them.

(2 Maccabees 12:23) 
And when they came near, crying out, and their gods, they implored that they would send for them.

(2 Maccabees 12:24) 
But Judas, and those with him, praying, asked for them.

(2 Maccabees 12:25) 
And when the prayer had been made, and they cried out, the impious were there, and there were some of the gentiles, who were in them, and were prepared for battle.

(2 Maccabees 12:26) 
And Judas and those with him fought, and were confused, and fled.

(2 Maccabees 12:27) 
And after this, some of them were wounded, and about thirty men were killed.

(2 Maccabees 12:28) 
And Judas, and those with him, followed and returned to their camp: and then, crying out and supplicating, they prayed.

(2 Maccabees 12:29) 
And they came to their camp, and after this, they fled, and were killed by those who were against them.

(2 Maccabees 12:30) 
And on that day, there were those near the village, which is under the mountains, named Adasa: and there they were in prayer and cried out: and after this.

(2 Maccabees 12:31) 
But Judas and those with him, after this, came: and with them, they cried out, and praying, and after this, they cried out.

(2 Maccabees 12:32) 
And they killed, and pierced, and on that day, about three hundred men were killed.

(2 Maccabees 12:33) 
And Judas, and those with him, returned and took the spoils.

(2 Maccabees 12:34) 
And after this, they were from Jericho, and in Jericho, and around, and after this, they were from Adasa.

(2 Maccabees 12:35) 
And they returned, and took the spoils. And after this, they were from Jerusalem, and after this, from them, and in Jerusalem.

(2 Maccabees 12:36) 
And they gave to him, who was over them, from Jerusalem, and those who were from Jerusalem, and around, and after this.

(2 Maccabees 12:37) 
And when they came to the land of Judea, and from them, and in the land of Judea, and after this, they were from Bethsura, and in Bethsura, and around, and after this.

(2 Maccabees 12:38) 
And they came, and after this, they were from Jerusalem, and from them, and in Jerusalem, and to the temple, and in the temple.

(2 Maccabees 12:39) 
And in those days, and then, they prayed to the Lord, and after this, they prayed for them.

(2 Maccabees 12:40) 
And after this, the Jews, and those with him, and after this, they prayed, and asked for them, and in Jerusalem.

(2 Maccabees 12:41) 
And then, they were in Jerusalem, and praying, and after this, they were in the temple.

(2 Maccabees 12:42) 
And when they arrived, they gave them money, and sacrificing, and after this, they sacrificed.

(2 Maccabees 12:43) 
And when they had finished, and they gave all, and after this, they gave money, and then, they were and sacrificed, and gave and sacrificed, and took the spoils.

(2 Maccabees 12:44) 
And after this, when they had completed all things, and all things, and after this, they gave all, and sacrificed, and when they had come to the end, and in those days, and after this, and in them, they were, and then, and before, they were.

(2 Maccabees 12:45) 
And those in Jerusalem, with the Jews, and to the temple, and in Jerusalem.

(2 Maccabees 12:46) 
And Judas and those with him, came to them, and after this, they prayed, and after this, they asked, and after this.

(2 Maccabees 12:47) 
And in those days, the feast of dedication, and in the feast days, and after this.

(2 Maccabees 12:48) 
And in them, and then, they praised and gave thanks to God, and praised, and in the feast days, and after this.

(2 Maccabees 12:49) 
And in them, and then, the Jews, who were there, and who were there, and after this, and in Jerusalem, and in Jerusalem.

(2 Maccabees 12:50) 
And in those days, after this, and in Jerusalem, and praying, and for them, and after this, and in Jerusalem.

(2 Maccabees 13:1) 
In the one hundred and forty-ninth year, Judas learned that Antiochus Eupator was coming with an army into Judea,

(2 Maccabees 13:2) 
and he brought with him a great force. With him was Alcimus, whom the king had made high priest.

(2 Maccabees 13:3) 
He had been disgraced in his own time because of his betrayal, and he began to strike the people and to kill those who were doing his work.

(2 Maccabees 13:4) 
All the wicked men gathered together and gathered wicked men to themselves, and they became strong, and they controlled the land, and they inflicted a severe plague upon Israel.

(2 Maccabees 13:5) 
And Judas, seeing that the evils had increased, and that the army was in the camps against them, and that the time was approaching for them to advance,

(2 Maccabees 13:6) 
commanded the rest of the people, saying: Do not be afraid of the face of the multitude, nor be terrified by the onslaught of the army.

(2 Maccabees 13:7) 
Remember the great salvation that was made for our fathers in the sea, when Pharaoh pursued them with his army.

(2 Maccabees 13:8) 
And now, if we cry out to the sky, God will have mercy on us and will remember His covenant, and He will crush this army before our faces today.

(2 Maccabees 13:9) 
So they terrified them, and they charged, and the adversaries were thrown into confusion.

(2 Maccabees 13:10) 
And they struck down of them on that day about five thousand men, and the horsemen and foot soldiers were wounded.

(2 Maccabees 13:11) 
And seeing that they had begun to resist, and had become bold, they boldly engaged against them.

(2 Maccabees 13:12) 
And they were confused, and many wounded fell from the rest; others fled into the camp.

(2 Maccabees 13:13) 
And in the camp was Nicanor, who had come from Judea and had been sent by the king.

(2 Maccabees 13:14) 
Hearing that the men of the Jews were stronger, he was terrified and no longer dared to strike.

(2 Maccabees 13:15) 
And on the Sabbath day, Judas went out with his men, and the war flared up.

(2 Maccabees 13:16) 
And they said among themselves, “What shall we do, since these Jews do not cease, but go to fight?”

(2 Maccabees 13:17) 
Then Nicanor commanded on the Sabbath day that they should lay down their arms and go out.

(2 Maccabees 13:18) 
And they went around to the Jews and fought against them, and about three hundred men fell from them on that day.

(2 Maccabees 13:19) 
Judas and his men went to bury the dead, and they began to place them with their fathers.

(2 Maccabees 13:20) 
And they found under the tunics of the slain men the vessels of the idols of Jamnia, which the Jews were forbidden to use according to the law.

(2 Maccabees 13:21) 
And it became clear to everyone that they had fallen for this reason.

(2 Maccabees 13:22) 
Therefore, all blessed the Lord, the just judge, who reveals hidden things.

(2 Maccabees 13:23) 
And Judas, turning back, exhorted the people to guard themselves from sins, because they had seen with their own eyes what had happened on account of the sin of those who had been killed.

(2 Maccabees 13:24) 
Then, gathering them individually, he sent twelve men to Rome to make friendship with them, and to receive help from them.

(2 Maccabees 13:25) 
And he read in them letters, in which they were commanded to receive the Jewish people into friendship and to give them aid if there was any need.

(2 Maccabees 13:26) 
Then the Macedonians went out to war, and Judas and his men besieged Casphin, and they fought.

(2 Maccabees 13:27) 
And those in the camp fled within the walls, and the Jews captured the city.

(2 Maccabees 13:28) 
And when day came, Judas gathered two thousand men from them, and divided them into two divisions for battle.

(2 Maccabees 13:29) 
And they engaged in battle, and they killed about eight thousand of them, and all the rest fled into the land of Galathi.

(2 Maccabees 13:30) 
On that day, Timothy, who was over the camps, was captured by them and was greatly tormented.

(2 Maccabees 13:31) 
And his brothers gathered around him, and they beseeched him and let him go, for they were afraid.

(2 Maccabees 14:1) 
In the one hundred forty-ninth year of the Seleucid era, Demetrius learned that the Romans and those in Asia were fearful of the Jews and were alarmed by them.

(2 Maccabees 14:2) 
So he gathered his wicked men and went out on a military campaign.

(2 Maccabees 14:3) 
He came to the land of Judea and marched toward the city of Jerusalem. He then fought against a large army.

(2 Maccabees 14:4) 
And Macabeus (Judas Maccabaeus) set up camp against him and against his army. Seeing his army coming, he prayed to the Lord and said:

(2 Maccabees 14:5) 
“O Lord, you have always gone before our fathers in battle, throwing down their enemies and giving them into our hands.

(2 Maccabees 14:6) 
Give our army the strength to fight and send a good angel before us to encourage us.

(2 Maccabees 14:7) 
May they be struck with fear and terror by the power of your arm, and let those who blaspheme your holy name perish.”

(2 Maccabees 14:8) 
The battle began, and many soldiers of Demetrius fell and were routed. Judas pursued them from the camp as far as Gaza and the surrounding territories.

(2 Maccabees 14:9) 
The battle brought great defeat on that day.

(2 Maccabees 14:10) 
Now, Jason, who had transported the Jews to his own city, and who had treated them badly and unjustly, betrayed his own people.

(2 Maccabees 14:11) 
Those who were persecuting the Jews along all the roads, and the citizens as well, killed them all and seized their silver and gold.

(2 Maccabees 14:12) 
They took the silver to the city and the rest to Jerusalem. Jason fled from Jerusalem to the city.

(2 Maccabees 14:13) 
The one who was defeated fled to the city of the Arabs and was routed and driven out by Aretas, the prince of the Arabs.

(2 Maccabees 14:14) 
Jason was pursued into the city, where he behaved wickedly, and was driven out into exile.

(2 Maccabees 14:15) 
Then, about three hundred Jews who had gone on the road to the city were captured and handed over to their enemies.

(2 Maccabees 14:16) 
Meanwhile, Menelaus became so wicked and was a most cruel tyrant. He gave orders for the killing of his own citizens.

(2 Maccabees 14:17) 
He entered Jerusalem with the wicked Antiochus, committing all of his evil deeds.

(2 Maccabees 14:18) 
He fell upon the city as if he were an enemy. He came with a scheme to do wrong and acted unjustly.

(2 Maccabees 14:19) 
He struck down many of the people and seized great spoils.

(2 Maccabees 14:20) 
Hearing this, Judas, who was fighting against Demetrius with his army, returned to the land of Judea and immediately went out to Berse and fought against Menelaus.

(2 Maccabees 14:21) 
He hid himself in Jerusalem and near the walls.

(2 Maccabees 14:22) 
While Judas was pressing the battle, the king sent soldiers to him.

(2 Maccabees 14:23) 
Menelaus was struck down and fell in battle, and Judas defeated him.

(2 Maccabees 14:24) 
When Judas went to the king, he pointed out the wickedness of those in the city.

(2 Maccabees 14:25) 
But when the king judged him, he ordered him to go to his death.

(2 Maccabees 14:26) 
For he had committed wickedness in the city, inflicting tortures and all kinds of crimes. Therefore, he was punished.

(2 Maccabees 14:27) 
And a crowd gathered around him and on his side, and they stoned him in the place where he had done wrong.

(2 Maccabees 14:28) 
Of those who were with Menelaus, many perished. He was now alone in Jerusalem, acting unjustly.

(2 Maccabees 14:29) 
When Jason came to trial and was sent to the Lacedaemonians, he was found guilty of acting unjustly.

(2 Maccabees 14:30) 
And those who sent him were punished, since he betrayed both himself and the one whom he had sent.

(2 Maccabees 14:31) 
When the king heard this, he was angry and punished them. Because they were from the city, he judged them and killed them.

(2 Maccabees 14:32) 
He killed many of the citizens and gave others to the soldiers to plunder. He cast out Jason, the wicked man, and the one who acted unjustly towards all, and he drove them into exile.

(2 Maccabees 14:33) 
He returned to Arabia and died in exile, and there was no one to bury him.

(2 Maccabees 14:34) 
And all those who acted against the law, against the holy things, and committed iniquities did not escape punishment.

(2 Maccabees 14:35) 
For even Demetrius, while fighting with his army, surrounded them. He was defeated by Macabeus and those with him and fled into the city.

(2 Maccabees 15:1) 
After this happened, Judas and his brothers were told that Antiochus Eupator had arrived in Judea with a large army,

(2 Maccabees 15:2) 
and with him was Lysias, his regent, commanding the most powerful part of the army: 110,000 infantry, 5,000 cavalry, 22 elephants, and 300 scythed chariots.

(2 Maccabees 15:3) 
Some Jews also came to him, requesting peace and hoping to avoid danger, and Lysias urged them forward.

(2 Maccabees 15:4) 
But he, acting with bad intentions and cruel desire, was invading Judea and the brothers who were mentioned previously.

(2 Maccabees 15:5) 
As he was approaching Jerusalem, a horseman, armed with golden armor, appeared in a vision from the sky, riding in front of him.

(2 Maccabees 15:6) 
Showing the mounted troop to Lysias, the horseman said, "Judas and his brothers were walking in this way, without fear."

(2 Maccabees 15:7) 
When Lysias saw this, they all fell from their horses, terrified, and were scattered.

(2 Maccabees 15:8) 
The Jews, however, were giving thanks to God, rejoicing in what He had done for them. Those who had been sent from the sky to them, were equipped with weapons, ready to fight.

(2 Maccabees 15:9) 
When they were close, they fought fiercely, and the enemies were wounded and scattered, and the rest fled.

(2 Maccabees 15:10) 
As Judas and his brothers were gaining glory and strength, he said, "Do not fight against your enemies, but remain in your place and worship the Lord together."

(2 Maccabees 15:11) 
Then, singing hymns in their presence and giving thanks to the Lord, who had acted wonderfully for them, brave and strong men arose and fought the battle, wounding more than 5,000 of the enemy.

(2 Maccabees 15:12) 
Seeing his armies defeated and the strongest soldiers fleeing, Antiochus Eupator became afraid and, against his will, agreed to peace with the Jews.

(2 Maccabees 15:13) 
The Jews, after agreeing to peace, handed over the weapons to their citizens and returned the garrisons, provisions, and everything they had taken to the camp.

(2 Maccabees 15:14) 
Antiochus and Lysias, after receiving everything, returned to the king through Judea with praise.

(2 Maccabees 15:15) 
After this, as they were returning to King Antiochus, a certain Philip, who was one of the king's advisors and was troubled, said to the king, "We don't control the kingdom; it's being governed with a garrison and wealth."

(2 Maccabees 15:16) 
But also, the Jews who fled from Judea are disturbing us and are adopting their customs."

(2 Maccabees 15:17) 
Therefore, I say, it is necessary for us to depart and make peace with the Jews. Otherwise, they and those who have helped them will harm us."

(2 Maccabees 15:18) 
After saying these things, Antiochus immediately became enraged and ordered Philip to be seized and killed, and he died many days later.

(2 Maccabees 15:19) 
After a great sacrifice, the Jews, and his sons, gathered to the destruction of the temple, and for this cause, they all came together.

(2 Maccabees 15:20) 
The gathering was made so that they would be seen, and the Jews, in their place, fought for the law and their homeland.

(2 Maccabees 15:21) 
Philip and those with him withdrew and fought, coming to the aid of those who were with the Jews.

(2 Maccabees 15:22) 
Then Judas, gathered with the other Jews in the appointed place, fought.

(2 Maccabees 15:23) 
And he shouted in their hearing: "God is just and strong! God is just and strong!"

(2 Maccabees 15:24) 
And he set up a banner, upon which there was a golden sign. Everyone who came forward in strength and danger, perished.

(2 Maccabees 15:25) 
The enemies were thrown down, but Judas, the son of Matthias, especially, waged war with his men.

(2 Maccabees 15:26) 
When the Jews heard of Judas's fame and what he had done, fearing him, they remained in his hands, as they were.

(2 Maccabees 15:27) 
And they praised the Lord, who had given them victory.