(Matthew 1:1) 
This is the book of the ancestry of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, son of Abraham.

(Matthew 1:2) 
Abraham was the father of Isaac. Isaac was the father of Jacob. Jacob was the father of Judah and his brothers:

(Matthew 1:3) 
Judah was the father of Phares and Zaram. Their mother was Thamar. Phares was the father of Esrom. Esrom was the father of Aram:

(Matthew 1:4) 
Aram was the father of Aminadab. Aminadab was the father of Naasson. Naasson was the father of Salmon:

(Matthew 1:5) 
Salmon was the father of Booz, whose mother was Rahab. Booz was the father of Obed, whose mother was Ruth. Obed was the father of Jesse:

(Matthew 1:6) 
Jesse was the father of King David. King David was the father of Solomon, whose mother was the wife of Uriah:

(Matthew 1:7) 
Solomon was the father of Rehoboam. Rehoboam was the father of Abijah. Abijah was the father of Asa:

(Matthew 1:8) 
Asa was the father of Jehoshaphat. Jehoshaphat was the father of Joram. Joram was the father of Uzziah:

(Matthew 1:9) 
Uzziah was the father of Jotham. Jotham was the father of Ahaz. Ahaz was the father of Hezekiah:

(Matthew 1:10) 
Hezekiah was the father of Manasseh. Manasseh was the father of Amos. Amos was the father of Josiah:

(Matthew 1:11) 
Josiah was the father of Jechoniah and his brothers, at the time of the exile to Babylon.

(Matthew 1:12) 
After the exile to Babylon, Jechoniah was the father of Shealtiel. Shealtiel was the father of Zerubbabel:

(Matthew 1:13) 
Zerubbabel was the father of Abiud. Abiud was the father of Eliakim. Eliakim was the father of Azor:

(Matthew 1:14) 
Azor was the father of Zadok. Zadok was the father of Achim. Achim was the father of Eliud:

(Matthew 1:15) 
Eliud was the father of Eleazar. Eleazar was the father of Matthan. Matthan was the father of Jacob:

(Matthew 1:16) 
Jacob was the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, and Mary was the mother of Jesus, who is called Christ.

(Matthew 1:17) 
Thus there were fourteen generations from Abraham to David, fourteen generations from David to the exile to Babylon, and fourteen generations from the exile to Christ.

(Matthew 1:18) 
This is how Jesus Christ was born. His mother Mary was engaged to Joseph, but before they were married, she became pregnant through the power of the Holy Spirit.

(Matthew 1:19) 
Because Joseph was a righteous man and did not want to publicly disgrace her, he decided to quietly divorce her.

(Matthew 1:20) 
But as he considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, “Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife, for what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.

(Matthew 1:21) 
She will give birth to a son, and you are to name him Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins.”

(Matthew 1:22) 
All of this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet:

(Matthew 1:23) 
“Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel,” which means, “God with us.”

(Matthew 1:24) 
When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him. He took Mary as his wife.

(Matthew 1:25) 
But he did not know her as a husband until she gave birth to a son, and he named him Jesus.

(Matthew 2:1) 
When Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea during the reign of King Herod, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem,

(Matthew 2:2) 
saying, “Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star in the east and have come to worship him.”

(Matthew 2:3) 
King Herod heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.

(Matthew 2:4) 
He assembled all the chief priests and scribes of the people, and inquired of them where the Christ was to be born.

(Matthew 2:5) 
They said to him, “In Bethlehem of Judea.” For so it is written by the prophet:

(Matthew 2:6) 
“And you, Bethlehem, land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah; for from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel.”

(Matthew 2:7) 
Then Herod secretly called the wise men and learned from them the time when the star had appeared.

(Matthew 2:8) 
And he sent them to Bethlehem, saying, “Go and search diligently for the child; and when you have found him, bring me word, that I too may come and worship him.”

(Matthew 2:9) 
When they had heard the king, they went their way; and lo, the star which they had seen in the east went before them, till it came to rest over the place where the child was.

(Matthew 2:10) 
When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy.

(Matthew 2:11) 
And going into the house, they saw the child with Mary his mother, and they fell down and worshiped him. Then, opening their treasures, they offered him gifts, gold, frankincense, and myrrh.

(Matthew 2:12) 
And being warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by another way.

(Matthew 2:13) 
Now when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, “Get up, take the child and his mother, and flee to Egypt, and stay there until I tell you; for Herod is going to search for the child to destroy him.”

(Matthew 2:14) 
So he got up, took the child and his mother by night, and went to Egypt,

(Matthew 2:15) 
and remained there until the death of Herod. This was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet, saying, “Out of Egypt I called my son.”

(Matthew 2:16) 
Then when Herod saw that he had been tricked by the wise men, he became very enraged, and sent and slew all the male children who were in Bethlehem and in all its vicinity, from two years old and under, according to the time which he had determined from the wise men.

(Matthew 2:17) 
Then was fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah, saying,

(Matthew 2:18) 
“A voice was heard in Ramah, weeping and loud lamentation, Rachel weeping for her children; and she refused to be comforted, because they are no more.”

(Matthew 2:19) 
But when Herod was dead, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt,

(Matthew 2:20) 
saying, “Get up, take the child and his mother, and go into the land of Israel, for those who sought the child’s life are dead.”

(Matthew 2:21) 
So he got up, took the child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel.

(Matthew 2:22) 
But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there; and being warned in a dream, he withdrew to the region of Galilee,

(Matthew 2:23) 
and came and lived in a city called Nazareth, that what was spoken by the prophets might be fulfilled, that he would be called a Nazarene.

(Matthew 3:1) 
At that time, John the Baptist came, preaching in the desert of Judea,

(Matthew 3:2) 
and saying, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand!"

(Matthew 3:3) 
For this is the one about whom the prophet Isaiah spoke, saying: 'The voice of one crying in the desert, prepare the way of the Lord, make straight His paths.'

(Matthew 3:4) 
Now John himself wore a garment made of camel's hair, and a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey.

(Matthew 3:5) 
Then Jerusalem, all of Judea, and all the region around the Jordan River went out to him,

(Matthew 3:6) 
and were baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins.

(Matthew 3:7) 
But when he saw many Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, "You brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come?

(Matthew 3:8) 
Therefore produce fruit worthy of repentance.

(Matthew 3:9) 
And do not presume to say to yourselves, 'We have Abraham as our father.' For I say to you that God is able to raise up children for Abraham from these stones.

(Matthew 3:10) 
And now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Therefore every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.

(Matthew 3:11) 
I baptize you with water for repentance, but He who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire.

(Matthew 3:12) 
His winnowing fork is in His hand, and He will thoroughly cleanse His threshing floor, and gather His wheat into the barn; but He will burn the chaff with unquenchable fire."

(Matthew 3:13) 
Then Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to John, to be baptized by him.

(Matthew 3:14) 
But John tried to prevent Him, saying, "I need to be baptized by You, and do You come to me?"

(Matthew 3:15) 
But Jesus answered and said to him, "Permit it now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness." Then he allowed Him.

(Matthew 3:16) 
When He had been baptized, Jesus came up immediately from the water; and behold, the heavens were opened to Him, and He saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and alighting upon Him.

(Matthew 3:17) 
And suddenly a voice came from heaven, saying, "This is My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased."

(Matthew 4:1) 
Then the Holy Spirit sent Jesus to the desert to be tested by the devil.

(Matthew 4:2) 
After fasting for forty days and forty nights, He became hungry.

(Matthew 4:3) 
The tempter then came to Him, and said, "If You are the Son of God, tell these stones to become bread."

(Matthew 4:4) 
But Jesus responded: "The Scriptures say, 'Man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.'"

(Matthew 4:5) 
Then the devil took Him to the holy city, and set Him on the pinnacle of the temple,

(Matthew 4:6) 
saying, "If You are the Son of God, throw Yourself down, because it is written, 'He will command His angels concerning you.' And 'On their hands they will bear you up, lest at any time you dash your foot against a stone.'

(Matthew 4:7) 
Jesus said to him, "Again, it is written, 'You shall not tempt the Lord your God.'

(Matthew 4:8) 
Again, the devil took Him to a very high mountain, and showed Him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory,

(Matthew 4:9) 
and said to Him, "All these things I will give You if You fall down and worship me."

(Matthew 4:10) 
Then Jesus said to him, "Go away, Satan! For it is written, 'You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only you shall serve.'

(Matthew 4:11) 
Then the devil left Him, and angels came and ministered to Him.

(Matthew 4:12) 
But when Jesus heard that John had been put in prison, He departed to Galilee.

(Matthew 4:13) 
And leaving Nazareth, He came and dwelt in Capernaum, which is by the sea, in the borders of Zebulun and Naphtali,

(Matthew 4:14) 
that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet Isaiah, saying:

(Matthew 4:15) 
'The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, the way of the sea beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles,

(Matthew 4:16) 
the people who sat in darkness have seen a great light, and upon those who sat in the region and shadow of death, light has dawned.'

(Matthew 4:17) 
From that time, Jesus began to preach and to say, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand."

(Matthew 4:18) 
And walking by the Sea of Galilee, He saw two brothers, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen.

(Matthew 4:19) 
And He said to them, "Follow Me, and I will make you fishers of men."

(Matthew 4:20) 
And immediately they left their nets and followed Him.

(Matthew 4:21) 
And going on from there, He saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets. And He called them.

(Matthew 4:22) 
And immediately they left the nets and their father, and followed Him.

(Matthew 4:23) 
And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all kinds of sickness and all kinds of disease among the people.

(Matthew 4:24) 
Then His fame went throughout all Syria; and they brought to Him all sick people who were afflicted with various diseases and torments, and those who were demon-possessed, epileptics, and paralytics; and He healed them.

(Matthew 4:25) 
And great multitudes followed Him from Galilee, and from Decapolis, and from Jerusalem, and from Judea, and from beyond the Jordan.

(Matthew 5:1) 
Seeing the crowds, He went up onto the mountain, and when He sat down, His disciples gathered around Him.

(Matthew 5:2) 
Opening His mouth, He taught them, saying:

(Matthew 5:3) 
Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.

(Matthew 5:4) 
Blessed are the meek: for they shall possess the earth.

(Matthew 5:5) 
Blessed are they who mourn: for they shall be comforted.

(Matthew 5:6) 
Blessed are they who hunger and thirst for righteousness: for they shall have their fill.

(Matthew 5:7) 
Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.

(Matthew 5:8) 
Blessed are the clean of heart: for they shall see God.

(Matthew 5:9) 
Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.

(Matthew 5:10) 
Blessed are they who suffer persecution for justice's sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.

(Matthew 5:11) 
Blessed are you when they shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you, falsely, for My sake:

(Matthew 5:12) 
Be glad and rejoice, for your reward is very great in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you.

(Matthew 5:13) 
You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt loses its savor, with what shall it be salted? It is good for nothing anymore but to be cast out and trodden under the feet of men.

(Matthew 5:14) 
You are the light of the world. A city set on a mountain cannot be hidden.

(Matthew 5:15) 
Neither do they light a lamp and put it under a basket, but upon a lampstand, that it may shine to all who are in the house.

(Matthew 5:16) 
So let your light shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father who is in heaven.

(Matthew 5:17) 
Do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets: I have not come to abolish, but to fulfill.

(Matthew 5:18) 
For truly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle shall not pass from the law, till all things are accomplished.

(Matthew 5:19) 
Whoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments, and shall teach men so, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven; but he that shall do and teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven.

(Matthew 5:20) 
For I say unto you, that unless your justice abound more than that of the scribes and Pharisees, you shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven.

(Matthew 5:21) 
You have heard that it was said to them of old: Thou shalt not kill; and whoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment.

(Matthew 5:22) 
But I say to you, that whoever is angry with his brother shall be in danger of the judgment. And whoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the council. And whoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hell fire.

(Matthew 5:23) 
If therefore you offer your gift at the altar, and there you remember that your brother has something against you:

(Matthew 5:24) 
leave your gift before the altar, and go first to be reconciled to your brother; and then coming you shall offer your gift.

(Matthew 5:25) 
Be at agreement with your adversary quickly, while you are in the way with him: lest perhaps the adversary deliver you to the judge, and the judge deliver you to the officer, and you be cast into prison.

(Matthew 5:26) 
Amen I say to you, you shall not go out from thence, till you repay the last farthing.

(Matthew 5:27) 
You have heard that it was said to them of old: Thou shalt not commit adultery.

(Matthew 5:28) 
But I say to you, that whoever looks at a woman to lust after her, has already committed adultery with her in his heart.

(Matthew 5:29) 
And if thy right eye scandalizes thee, pluck it out and cast it from thee: for it is expedient for thee that one of thy members should perish, rather than that thy whole body should be cast into hell.

(Matthew 5:30) 
And if thy right hand scandalizes thee, cut it off and cast it from thee: for it is expedient for thee that one of thy members should perish, rather than that thy whole body should go into hell.

(Matthew 5:31) 
And it hath been said: Whoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a bill of divorce.

(Matthew 5:32) 
But I say to you, that whoever shall put away his wife, except for the cause of fornication, causes her to commit adultery; and whoever shall marry her who is put away, commits adultery.

(Matthew 5:33) 
Again you have heard that it was said to them of old: Thou shalt not forswear thyself; but thou shalt perform thy oaths to the Lord.

(Matthew 5:34) 
But I say to you not to swear at all, neither by heaven, for it is the throne of God:

(Matthew 5:35) 
nor by the earth, for it is the footstool of his feet: nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king:

(Matthew 5:36) 
Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not make one hair white or black.

(Matthew 5:37) 
But let your speech be, Yes, yes: No, no: and that which is over and above these, is of evil.

(Matthew 5:38) 
You have heard that it hath been said: An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.

(Matthew 5:39) 
But I say to you not to resist evil: but if anyone strikes you on your right cheek, turn to him also the other:

(Matthew 5:40) 
And if any man will sue thee at the law, and take away thy coat, let go thy cloak also:

(Matthew 5:41) 
And whosoever shall force thee to go one mile, go with him two.

(Matthew 5:42) 
Give to him that asks of thee; and from him that would borrow of thee turn not away.

(Matthew 5:43) 
You have heard that it hath been said: Thou shalt love thy neighbor, and hate thy enemy.

(Matthew 5:44) 
But I say to you, Love your enemies: do good to them that hate you: and pray for them that persecute and calumniate you:

(Matthew 5:45) 
That you may be the children of your Father who is in heaven: who makes his sun to rise upon the good and the bad, and rains upon the just and the unjust.

(Matthew 5:46) 
For if you love those who love you, what reward shall you have? Do not even the publicans do the same?

(Matthew 5:47) 
And if you salute your brethren only, what do you more? Do not also the heathens do the same?

(Matthew 5:48) 
Be you therefore perfect, as also your heavenly Father is perfect.

(Matthew 6:1) 
Be careful not to display your piety merely to be seen by others. Otherwise, you will get no reward from your Father in heaven.

(Matthew 6:2) 
So when you give alms, do not announce it with trumpets as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by men. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward.

(Matthew 6:3) 
But when you give alms, let not your left hand know what your right hand is doing,

(Matthew 6:4) 
so that your alms may be in secret, and your Father who sees in secret will repay you.

(Matthew 6:5) 
And when you pray, you shall not be like the hypocrites, who love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the corners of the streets, that they may be seen by men. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward.

(Matthew 6:6) 
But when you pray, go into your room and shut your door and pray to your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will repay you.

(Matthew 6:7) 
And when you pray, do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words.

(Matthew 6:8) 
Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him.

(Matthew 6:9) 
Pray then like this: “Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name.

(Matthew 6:10) 
“Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven.

(Matthew 6:11) 
“Give us this day our daily bread,

(Matthew 6:12) 
“And forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors.

(Matthew 6:13) 
“And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.”

(Matthew 6:14) 
For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you,

(Matthew 6:15) 
but if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.

(Matthew 6:16) 
“And when you fast, do not look gloomy like the hypocrites, for they disfigure their faces that their fasting may be seen by others. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward.

(Matthew 6:17) 
But when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face,

(Matthew 6:18) 
that your fasting may not be seen by others but by your Father, who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will repay you.

(Matthew 6:19) 
“Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal,

(Matthew 6:20) 
but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and where thieves do not break in and steal.

(Matthew 6:21) 
For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.

(Matthew 6:22) 
“The eye is the lamp of the body. So, if your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light,

(Matthew 6:23) 
but if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light in you is darkness, how great is the darkness!

(Matthew 6:24) 
“No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money.

(Matthew 6:25) 
“Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing?

(Matthew 6:26) 
Look at the birds of the air: they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they?

(Matthew 6:27) 
And which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to his span of life?

(Matthew 6:28) 
And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin,

(Matthew 6:29) 
yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.

(Matthew 6:30) 
But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith?

(Matthew 6:31) 
Therefore do not be anxious, saying, ‘What shall we eat?’ or ‘What shall we drink?’ or ‘What shall we wear?’

(Matthew 6:32) 
For the Gentiles seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all.

(Matthew 6:33) 
But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you.

(Matthew 6:34) 
“Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble.

(Matthew 7:1) 
Do not judge, so that you will not be judged.

(Matthew 7:2) 
Because in the way you judge, you will be judged. And in the measure you use, it will be measured to you.

(Matthew 7:3) 
And why do you see a splinter in your brother's eye, but the beam in your own eye do you not see?

(Matthew 7:4) 
Or how do you say to your brother, ‘Let me cast the splinter out of your eye,’ and look, there is a beam in your own eye?

(Matthew 7:5) 
Hypocrite, first cast out the beam from your own eye, and then you will see how to cast the splinter out of your brother's eye.

(Matthew 7:6) 
Do not give what is holy to dogs, and do not throw your pearls before pigs, lest perhaps they trample them with their feet, and turning, they tear you to pieces.

(Matthew 7:7) 
Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.

(Matthew 7:8) 
For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks, it will be opened.

(Matthew 7:9) 
Or what man is there among you, whom if his son asks for bread, will he hand him a stone?

(Matthew 7:10) 
Or if he asks for a fish, will he give him a serpent?

(Matthew 7:11) 
If then you, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give good things to those who ask Him?

(Matthew 7:12) 
Therefore, all things that you want men to do to you, do also to them. For this is the Law and the Prophets.

(Matthew 7:13) 
Enter through the narrow gate; because wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and many are those who enter by it.

(Matthew 7:14) 
How narrow is the gate, and constricted is the way that leads to life; and few are those who find it!

(Matthew 7:15) 
Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves.

(Matthew 7:16) 
By their fruits you will know them. Do men gather grapes from thorns, or figs from thistles?

(Matthew 7:17) 
So every good tree brings forth good fruits, and a bad tree brings forth bad fruits.

(Matthew 7:18) 
A good tree cannot bring forth bad fruits, nor can a bad tree bring forth good fruits.

(Matthew 7:19) 
Every tree that does not bear good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire.

(Matthew 7:20) 
Therefore, by their fruits you will know them.

(Matthew 7:21) 
Not everyone who says to me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven will enter the kingdom of heaven.

(Matthew 7:22) 
Many will say to me on that day, ‘Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name?’

(Matthew 7:23) 
And then I will confess to them: ‘I never knew you; depart from me, you who work iniquity.’

(Matthew 7:24) 
Therefore, everyone who hears these words of mine and does them will be likened to a wise man who built his house upon a rock.

(Matthew 7:25) 
And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, and it did not fall, because it was founded upon a rock.

(Matthew 7:26) 
And everyone who hears these words of mine, and does not do them, will be like a foolish man who built his house upon the sand.

(Matthew 7:27) 
And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell, and great was its ruin.

(Matthew 7:28) 
And it happened that when Jesus had finished these words, the crowds were astonished at his teaching.

(Matthew 7:29) 
For he taught them as one having authority, and not as their scribes.

(Matthew 8:1) 
When Jesus came down from the mountain, great crowds followed Him.

(Matthew 8:2) 
And behold, a leper came and worshipped Him, saying, “Lord, if You are willing, You can make me clean.”

(Matthew 8:3) 
And stretching out His hand, He touched him, saying, “I am willing; be cleansed.”

(Matthew 8:4) 
And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. And Jesus said to him, “See that you tell no one; but go, show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.”

(Matthew 8:5) 
When He had entered Capernaum, a centurion came to Him, beseeching Him,

(Matthew 8:6) 
and saying, “Lord, my servant is lying at home paralyzed, dreadfully tormented.”

(Matthew 8:7) 
And Jesus said to him, “I will come and heal him.”

(Matthew 8:8) 
The centurion answered and said, “Lord, I am not worthy that You should come under my roof; but only speak a word, and my servant will be healed.

(Matthew 8:9) 
For I also am a man under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to this one, ‘Go,’ and he goes; and to another, ‘Come,’ and he comes; and to my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.”

(Matthew 8:10) 
When Jesus heard this, He marveled and said to those who followed Him, “Truly, I say to you, I have not found such great faith in anyone in Israel.

(Matthew 8:11) 
I say to you that many will come from the east and west and recline at table with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven,

(Matthew 8:12) 
but the sons of the kingdom will be cast out into the outer darkness; there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.”

(Matthew 8:13) 
And Jesus said to the centurion, “Go; let it be done for you as you have believed.” And the servant was healed that very hour.

(Matthew 8:14) 
When Jesus had entered Peter’s house, He saw his wife’s mother lying sick with a fever.

(Matthew 8:15) 
He touched her hand, and the fever left her; and she arose and served Him.

(Matthew 8:16) 
When evening came, they brought to Him many who were demon-possessed; and He cast out the spirits with a word, and healed all who were sick.

(Matthew 8:17) 
This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah: “He Himself took our infirmities and bore our sicknesses.”

(Matthew 8:18) 
Now when Jesus saw great crowds around Him, He gave orders to go over to the other side.

(Matthew 8:19) 
And a certain scribe came and said to Him, “Teacher, I will follow You wherever You go.”

(Matthew 8:20) 
And Jesus said to him, “The foxes have holes and the birds of the sky have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay His head.”

(Matthew 8:21) 
And another of the disciples said to Him, “Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father.”

(Matthew 8:22) 
But Jesus said to him, “Follow Me, and let the dead bury their own dead.”

(Matthew 8:23) 
And when He got into the boat, His disciples followed Him.

(Matthew 8:24) 
And behold, a great storm arose on the sea, so that the boat was being covered with waves, but He was sleeping.

(Matthew 8:25) 
And they came to Him and woke Him, saying, “Lord, save us! We are perishing!”

(Matthew 8:26) 
And He said to them, “Why are you afraid, you of little faith?” Then He arose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm.

(Matthew 8:27) 
And the men marveled, saying, “What kind of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey Him?”

(Matthew 8:28) 
And when He had come to the other side, to the region of the Gadarenes, two demon-possessed men met Him as they came out of the tombs, exceedingly fierce, so that no one could pass that way.

(Matthew 8:29) 
And they cried out, saying, “What do we have to do with You, Son of God? Have You come here to torment us before the time?”

(Matthew 8:30) 
Now some distance from them there was a herd of many swine feeding.

(Matthew 8:31) 
And the demons begged Him, saying, “If You cast us out, send us away into the herd of swine.”

(Matthew 8:32) 
And He said to them, “Go!” And when they came out, they went into the swine, and behold, the whole herd of swine rushed down the steep bank into the sea and died in the waters.

(Matthew 8:33) 
Then the herdsmen fled, and they went away to the city and told everything, including what had happened to the demon-possessed men.

(Matthew 8:34) 
And behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus; and when they saw Him, they begged Him to depart from their region.

(Matthew 9:1) 
Then, Jesus got into a boat and crossed the sea to return to his own city.

(Matthew 9:2) 
And as he arrived, some people brought to him a paralytic, who was lying on a bed.

(Matthew 9:3) 
Seeing their faith, Jesus said to the paralytic, “Have courage, my son; your sins are forgiven.”

(Matthew 9:4) 
Some of the scribes, however, thought to themselves, “This man is blaspheming.”

(Matthew 9:5) 
Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, “Why do you consider evil things in your hearts?

(Matthew 9:6) 
Is it easier to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Rise and walk’?

(Matthew 9:7) 
But so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins,”—then Jesus said to the paralytic, “Rise, take your bed, and go home.”

(Matthew 9:8) 
And immediately he rose and went home.

(Matthew 9:9) 
Seeing this, the crowds were struck with fear and glorified God, who had given such power to men.

(Matthew 9:10) 
As Jesus passed on from there, he saw a man named Matthew sitting at the tax office. Jesus said to him, “Follow me.” And Matthew rose and followed him.

(Matthew 9:11) 
While Jesus was at dinner in the house, many tax collectors and sinners came and ate with him and his disciples.

(Matthew 9:12) 
When the Pharisees saw this, they said to his disciples, “Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?”

(Matthew 9:13) 
But when Jesus heard this, he said, “Those who are healthy don’t need a doctor, but those who are sick.

(Matthew 9:14) 
But go and learn what this means: ‘I desire mercy, and not sacrifice.’ For I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners.”

(Matthew 9:15) 
Then John's disciples came to him, asking, “Why do we and the Pharisees fast often, but your disciples do not fast?”

(Matthew 9:16) 
Jesus said to them, “Can the wedding guests mourn while the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come when the bridegroom is taken away, and then they will fast.

(Matthew 9:17) 
No one sews a patch of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, for the patch pulls away from the garment, and the tear becomes worse.

(Matthew 9:18) 
Nor do people put new wine into old wineskins; otherwise the wineskins burst, the wine spills out, and the wineskins are destroyed. But they put new wine into fresh wineskins, and so both are preserved.”

(Matthew 9:19) 
While he was saying these things to them, a certain ruler came and knelt before him, saying, “My daughter has just died, but come, put your hand on her, and she will live.”

(Matthew 9:20) 
Jesus rose and followed him, with his disciples.

(Matthew 9:21) 
Suddenly, a woman who had suffered from a hemorrhage for twelve years came up behind him and touched the edge of his garment.

(Matthew 9:22) 
For she said to herself, “If I only touch his garment, I shall be made well.”

(Matthew 9:23) 
Jesus turned, and seeing her, said, “Have courage, daughter; your faith has saved you.” And from that moment, the woman was made well.

(Matthew 9:24) 
When Jesus arrived at the ruler’s house, he saw the flute players and the crowd making a commotion.

(Matthew 9:25) 
He said, “Get out! The girl is not dead, but is sleeping.” And they laughed at him.

(Matthew 9:26) 
But when the crowd was put out, he went in and took her by the hand, and the girl arose.

(Matthew 9:27) 
And the news of this spread throughout that whole region.

(Matthew 9:28) 
As Jesus passed on from there, two blind men followed him, crying out, “Have mercy on us, Son of David!”

(Matthew 9:29) 
When he entered the house, the blind men approached him, and Jesus said to them, “Do you believe that I can do this?”

(Matthew 9:30) 
They said to him, “Yes, Lord.” Then he touched their eyes, saying, “According to your faith, let it be done for you.”

(Matthew 9:31) 
And their eyes were opened. And Jesus sternly warned them, saying, “See that no one knows about this.”

(Matthew 9:32) 
But they went out and spread the news of him throughout that whole region.

(Matthew 9:33) 
After they went out, behold, they brought to him a mute man possessed by a demon.

(Matthew 9:34) 
And when the demon was cast out, the mute man spoke. And the crowds marveled, saying, “Nothing like this has ever been seen in Israel.”

(Matthew 9:35) 
But the Pharisees said, “By the prince of demons he casts out demons.”

(Matthew 9:36) 
Jesus traveled throughout all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the Gospel of the kingdom, and healing every disease and every infirmity.

(Matthew 9:37) 
When he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd.

(Matthew 9:38) 
Then he said to his disciples, “The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few.

(Matthew 9:39) 
Therefore, pray the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest.”

(Matthew 10:1) 
And when He had called His twelve disciples, He gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to cure every sickness and every disease.

(Matthew 10:2) 
And these are the names of the twelve Apostles: the first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, and James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother,

(Matthew 10:3) 
Philip, and Bartholomew, Thomas, and Matthew the tax collector, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus,

(Matthew 10:4) 
Simon the Cananean, and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed Him.

(Matthew 10:5) 
These twelve Jesus sent, commanding them, saying: “Do not go into the way of the Gentiles, and do not enter into any city of the Samaritans.

(Matthew 10:6) 
But go instead to the sheep that have gone astray from the house of Israel.

(Matthew 10:7) 
And as you go, preach, saying: ‘The kingdom of heaven is at hand.’

(Matthew 10:8) 
Cure the sick, raise the dead, cleanse the lepers, cast out demons: you have received freely, give freely.

(Matthew 10:9) 
Do not acquire gold, nor silver, nor money in your purses:

(Matthew 10:10) 
Nor a bag for the journey, nor two tunics, nor sandals, nor a staff: for the workman is worthy of his food.

(Matthew 10:11) 
And into whatever city or village you enter, inquire who in it is worthy: and stay there until you leave.

(Matthew 10:12) 
And entering into the house, greet it, saying: ‘Peace to this house.’

(Matthew 10:13) 
And if the house is worthy, your peace will come upon it: but if it is not worthy, your peace will return to you.

(Matthew 10:14) 
And whoever does not receive you, nor hear your words: leaving that house or city, shake off the dust from your feet.

(Matthew 10:15) 
Amen I say to you, it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city.

(Matthew 10:16) 
Behold, I send you as sheep in the midst of wolves. Therefore be prudent as serpents, and simple as doves.

(Matthew 10:17) 
But beware of men. For they will deliver you up to councils, and in their synagogues they will scourge you:

(Matthew 10:18) 
And you will be brought before governors and kings for My sake, for a testimony to them and to the Gentiles.

(Matthew 10:19) 
But when they deliver you up, do not be anxious about how or what you are to speak: for it will be given to you in that hour what you are to say:

(Matthew 10:20) 
For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father who speaks in you.

(Matthew 10:21) 
And the brother will deliver up the brother to death, and the father the son: and children will rise up against their parents, and cause them to be put to death:

(Matthew 10:22) 
And you will be hated by all for My name’s sake: but he who perseveres until the end, he will be saved.

(Matthew 10:23) 
And when they persecute you in this city, flee to another. Amen I say to you, you will not finish the cities of Israel until the Son of Man comes.

(Matthew 10:24) 
The disciple is not above his master, nor is the servant above his lord.

(Matthew 10:25) 
It is enough for the disciple that he be as his master, and the servant as his lord. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebub, how much more those of his household?

(Matthew 10:26) 
Therefore do not fear them. For there is nothing hidden that will not be revealed: and nothing secret that will not be known.

(Matthew 10:27) 
What I say to you in the dark, speak in the light: and what you hear in the ear, preach on the housetops.

(Matthew 10:28) 
And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul: but rather fear Him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.

(Matthew 10:29) 
Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? And not one of them will fall on the ground without your Father.

(Matthew 10:30) 
But the very hairs of your head are all numbered.

(Matthew 10:31) 
Therefore do not be afraid: you are more valuable than many sparrows.

(Matthew 10:32) 
Therefore everyone who acknowledges Me before men, I will also acknowledge him before My Father who is in heaven.

(Matthew 10:33) 
But whoever denies Me before men, I will also deny him before My Father who is in heaven.

(Matthew 10:34) 
Do not think that I came to send peace on earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword.

(Matthew 10:35) 
For I came to set a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law:

(Matthew 10:36) 
And a man’s enemies will be those of his own household.

(Matthew 10:37) 
He who loves father or mother more than Me is not worthy of Me: and he who loves son or daughter more than Me is not worthy of Me.

(Matthew 10:38) 
And whoever does not take up his cross and follow Me is not worthy of Me.

(Matthew 10:39) 
He who finds his life will lose it: and he who loses his life for My sake will find it.

(Matthew 10:40) 
He who receives you receives Me: and he who receives Me receives Him Who sent Me.

(Matthew 10:41) 
He who receives a prophet in the name of a prophet will receive a prophet’s reward: and he who receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man will receive a righteous man’s reward.

(Matthew 10:42) 
And whoever gives to one of these little ones a cup of cold water only in the name of a disciple: Amen I say to you, he will not lose his reward.

(Matthew 11:1) 
After Jesus had finished giving instructions to His twelve disciples, He went on from there to teach and preach in their towns.

(Matthew 11:2) 
When John heard in prison about the things that Christ was doing, he sent two of his disciples,

(Matthew 11:3) 
asking Him, "Are You the One who is to come, or should we look for another?"

(Matthew 11:4) 
Jesus replied, "Go back and report to John what you hear and see:

(Matthew 11:5) 
The blind receive sight, the lame walk, those with leprosy are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the poor are evangelized."

(Matthew 11:6) 
Blessed is the one who is not offended by Me."

(Matthew 11:7) 
As John’s disciples were leaving, Jesus began to speak to the crowd about John: "What did you go out into the desert to see? A reed swayed by the wind?

(Matthew 11:8) 
Or what did you go out to see? A man dressed in fine clothes? Those who wear fine clothes are in royal palaces.

(Matthew 11:9) 
Or what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.

(Matthew 11:10) 
This is the one about whom it is written: ‘I will send My messenger ahead of You, who will prepare Your way before You.’

(Matthew 11:11) 
Truly I tell you, among those born of women there has not arisen anyone greater than John the Baptist; yet whoever is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he.

(Matthew 11:12) 
From the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven has been subjected to violence, and violent people are taking it by force.

(Matthew 11:13) 
For all the Prophets and the Law prophesied until John.

(Matthew 11:14) 
And if you are willing to accept it, he is the Elijah who was to come.

(Matthew 11:15) 
He who has ears, let him hear.

(Matthew 11:16) 
To what can I compare this generation? They are like children sitting in the marketplaces and calling out to their companions:

(Matthew 11:17) 
‘We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we wailed, and you did not mourn.’

(Matthew 11:18) 
For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, ‘He has a demon.’

(Matthew 11:19) 
The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, ‘Here is a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners.’ But wisdom is proved right by her deeds."

(Matthew 11:20) 
Then Jesus began to denounce the cities in which most of His miracles had been performed, because they did not repent:

(Matthew 11:21) 
"Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the miracles that were performed in you had been performed in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.

(Matthew 11:22) 
But I tell you, it will be more bearable for Tyre and Sidon on the day of judgment than for you.

(Matthew 11:23) 
And you, Capernaum, will you be lifted to the heavens? No, you will go down to Hades. For if the miracles that were performed in you had been performed in Sodom, it would have remained to this day.

(Matthew 11:24) 
But I tell you that it will be more bearable for the land of Sodom on the day of judgment than for you."

(Matthew 11:25) 
At that time Jesus said, "I praise You, Father, Lord of the universe and the earth, because You have hidden these things from the wise and the learned and revealed them to little children.

(Matthew 11:26) 
Yes, Father, for this is what You were pleased to do.

(Matthew 11:27) 
All things have been entrusted to Me by My Father. No one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son and those to whom the Son is willing to reveal Him.

(Matthew 11:28) 
"Come to Me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest.

(Matthew 11:29) 
Take My yoke upon you and learn from Me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls.

(Matthew 11:30) 
For My yoke is easy and My burden is light."

(Matthew 12:1) 
At that time, Jesus walked through a field of grain on a Sabbath. His disciples, famished, began to pluck the heads of grain and eat them.

(Matthew 12:2) 
But the Pharisees, seeing this, said to Him, "Look, Your disciples are doing what isn't lawful to do on the Sabbath."

(Matthew 12:3) 
But He said to them, "Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, and those who were with him:

(Matthew 12:4) 
How he entered the house of God and ate the bread of the Presence, which it was not lawful for him to eat, nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests?

(Matthew 12:5) 
Or have you not read in the Law that on the Sabbath, the priests in the temple violate the Sabbath, and are without guilt?

(Matthew 12:6) 
But I tell you that someone greater than the temple is here.

(Matthew 12:7) 
If you had known what this means, 'I desire mercy, and not sacrifice,' you would never have condemned the innocent.

(Matthew 12:8) 
For the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.

(Matthew 12:9) 
And departing from there, He came into their synagogue.

(Matthew 12:10) 
And behold, there was a man with a withered hand. And they questioned Him, saying, "Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?" This was to accuse Him.

(Matthew 12:11) 
But He said to them, "Who among you, if he has one sheep and it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not take hold of it and lift it out?

(Matthew 12:12) 
How much more valuable is a man than a sheep! Therefore, it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath."

(Matthew 12:13) 
Then He said to the man, "Stretch out your hand." And he stretched it out, and it was restored, healthy like the other.

(Matthew 12:14) 
But the Pharisees went out and made a plan against Him, on how to destroy Him.

(Matthew 12:15) 
Jesus, knowing this, withdrew from there. And many followed Him, and He healed them all.

(Matthew 12:16) 
And He commanded them not to make Him known.

(Matthew 12:17) 
This was to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet:

(Matthew 12:18) 
"Behold, My servant whom I have chosen, My beloved in whom My soul is well pleased. I will put My Spirit upon Him, and He will proclaim justice to the Gentiles.

(Matthew 12:19) 
He will not quarrel nor cry aloud, nor will anyone hear His voice in the streets.

(Matthew 12:20) 
A bruised reed He will not break, and a smoldering wick He will not quench, until He brings justice to victory.

(Matthew 12:21) 
And in His name the Gentiles will hope."

(Matthew 12:22) 
Then a demon-possessed man who was blind and mute was brought to Him, and He healed him, so that the man spoke and saw.

(Matthew 12:23) 
And all the crowds were amazed, and were saying, "Could this be the Son of David?"

(Matthew 12:24) 
But when the Pharisees heard this, they said, "This man casts out demons only by Beelzebul, the prince of demons."

(Matthew 12:25) 
But knowing their thoughts, Jesus said to them, "Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation, and every city or house divided against itself will not stand.

(Matthew 12:26) 
And if Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand?

(Matthew 12:27) 
And if I cast out demons by Beelzebul, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges.

(Matthew 12:28) 
But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.

(Matthew 12:29) 
Or how can someone enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods, unless he first binds the strong man? Then he will plunder his house.

(Matthew 12:30) 
He who is not with Me is against Me, and he who does not gather with Me scatters.

(Matthew 12:31) 
Therefore I say to you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven people, but blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven.

(Matthew 12:32) 
And whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come.

(Matthew 12:33) 
Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad. For the tree is known by its fruit.

(Matthew 12:34) 
You brood of vipers, how can you speak good, when you are evil? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.

(Matthew 12:35) 
The good man brings good things out of his good treasure, and the evil man brings evil things out of his evil treasure.

(Matthew 12:36) 
I tell you, that every idle word that people speak, they will give an account of it in the day of judgment.

(Matthew 12:37) 
For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.

(Matthew 12:38) 
Then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered Him, saying, "Teacher, we want to see a sign from You."

(Matthew 12:39) 
He answered and said to them, "An evil and adulterous generation seeks a sign, and no sign will be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah.

(Matthew 12:40) 
For as Jonah was in the belly of the great fish for three days and three nights, so will the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth for three days and three nights.

(Matthew 12:41) 
The men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and will condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah. And behold, someone greater than Jonah is here.

(Matthew 12:42) 
The queen of the South will rise up at the judgment with this generation and will condemn it, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon. And behold, someone greater than Solomon is here.

(Matthew 12:43) 
When the unclean spirit has gone out of a man, it passes through arid places, seeking rest, but finds none.

(Matthew 12:44) 
Then it says, 'I will return to my house from which I came.' And when it comes, it finds it empty, swept, and put in order.

(Matthew 12:45) 
Then it goes and takes with it seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there. And the last state of that man becomes worse than the first. So also will it be with this evil generation.

(Matthew 12:46) 
While He was still speaking to the crowds, behold, His mother and His brothers stood outside, seeking to speak to Him.

(Matthew 12:47) 
Then someone said to Him, "Behold, Your mother and Your brothers are standing outside, seeking to speak to You."

(Matthew 12:48) 
But He answered the one who told Him, "Who is My mother, and who are My brothers?"

(Matthew 12:49) 
And stretching out His hand toward His disciples, He said, "Behold My mother and My brothers!

(Matthew 12:50) 
For whoever does the will of My Father who is in heaven is My brother and sister and mother."

(Matthew 13:1) 
On that very day, Jesus went outside of the house and sat near the Sea of Galilee.

(Matthew 13:2) 
And many crowds came together to meet Him. He got into a boat and sat, and the entire crowd stood on the shore.

(Matthew 13:3) 
And He spoke many things to them in parables, saying: "Behold, a sower went out to sow seeds."

(Matthew 13:4) 
And as he sowed, some seeds fell beside the road, and the birds came and ate them.

(Matthew 13:5) 
Other seeds fell on rocky places where there wasn't much soil. They quickly sprang up because they didn't have much depth of soil.

(Matthew 13:6) 
But when the sun rose, they were scorched, and because they didn't have any roots, they withered.

(Matthew 13:7) 
Other seeds fell among thorns. The thorns grew up and choked them.

(Matthew 13:8) 
But others fell on good soil and yielded fruit: some a hundredfold, some sixtyfold, and some thirtyfold.

(Matthew 13:9) 
He who has ears to hear, let him hear.

(Matthew 13:10) 
And the disciples, approaching Him, said to Him: "Why do You speak to them in parables?"

(Matthew 13:11) 
He answered and said to them: "Because it has been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but it has not been given to them.

(Matthew 13:12) 
For to him who has, more will be given, and he will have abundance. But from him who does not have, even what he seems to have will be taken away.

(Matthew 13:13) 
Therefore, I speak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand.

(Matthew 13:14) 
And the prophecy of Isaiah is being fulfilled in them, saying: 'You will hear and hear, but you will not understand. And seeing, you will see, but you will not perceive.'

(Matthew 13:15) 
For the heart of this people has grown dull, and their ears are hard of hearing, and their eyes they have closed, lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their heart and turn, and I would heal them.'

(Matthew 13:16) 
But blessed are your eyes because they see, and your ears because they hear.

(Matthew 13:17) 
For truly I say to you that many prophets and righteous people desired to see what you see and did not see it, and to hear what you hear and did not hear it.

(Matthew 13:18) 
Therefore, hear the parable of the sower.

(Matthew 13:19) 
Everyone who hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand, the evil one comes and snatches away what was sown in his heart. This is the one sown beside the road.

(Matthew 13:20) 
And the one sown on the rocky places, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy.

(Matthew 13:21) 
Yet he has no root in himself, but is temporary. When tribulation or persecution arises because of the word, he immediately falls away.

(Matthew 13:22) 
The one sown among the thorns, this is the one who hears the word. But the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful.

(Matthew 13:23) 
But the one sown on the good soil, this is the one who hears the word and understands it, and he yields fruit and produces: some a hundredfold, some sixtyfold, and some thirtyfold.

(Matthew 13:24) 
Another parable He put before them, saying: "The kingdom of heaven is like a man who sowed good seed in his field.

(Matthew 13:25) 
But while the men were sleeping, his enemy came and sowed weeds among the wheat and went away.

(Matthew 13:26) 
When the blade came up and produced fruit, then the weeds also appeared.

(Matthew 13:27) 
And the servants of the master of the house came to him and said, 'Master, didn't you sow good seed in your field? Where did the weeds come from?'

(Matthew 13:28) 
He said to them: 'An enemy has done this.' And the servants said to him: 'Do you want us to go and gather them?'

(Matthew 13:29) 
He said: 'No, lest in gathering the weeds you root up the wheat with them.'

(Matthew 13:30) 
Let both grow together until the harvest, and at the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers: 'First gather the weeds and bind them in bundles to be burned, but gather the wheat into my barn.'

(Matthew 13:31) 
He put another parable before them, saying: "The kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed that a man took and sowed in his field.

(Matthew 13:32) 
It is the smallest of all seeds. But when it has grown, it is the largest of the herbs and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the sky come and make nests in its branches.

(Matthew 13:33) 
He spoke another parable to them: "The kingdom of heaven is like yeast, which a woman took and hid in three measures of flour until it was all leavened."

(Matthew 13:34) 
All these things Jesus spoke to the crowds in parables, and He did not speak to them without parables,

(Matthew 13:35) 
so that what was spoken by the prophet might be fulfilled, saying: 'I will open My mouth in parables; I will utter things hidden since the foundation of the world.'

(Matthew 13:36) 
Then, having dismissed the crowds, He went into the house. And His disciples came to Him, saying: "Explain to us the parable of the weeds of the field."

(Matthew 13:37) 
He answered and said to them: "The one who sows the good seed is the Son of Man.

(Matthew 13:38) 
The field is the world. The good seed are the children of the kingdom, and the weeds are the children of the evil one.

(Matthew 13:39) 
And the enemy who sowed them is the devil. The harvest is the end of the age, and the reapers are the angels.

(Matthew 13:40) 
So just as the weeds are gathered and burned with fire, so will it be at the end of the age.

(Matthew 13:41) 
The Son of Man will send out His angels, and they will gather out of His kingdom all things that cause sin and those who do evil,

(Matthew 13:42) 
and will throw them into the furnace of fire. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.

(Matthew 13:43) 
Then the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their Father. He who has an ear, let him hear.

(Matthew 13:44) 
"The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field, which a man found and hid. And for joy over it, he goes and sells all that he has and buys that field.

(Matthew 13:45) 
"Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant looking for fine pearls,

(Matthew 13:46) 
and finding one pearl of great value, he went and sold all that he had and bought it.

(Matthew 13:47) 
"Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net that was cast into the sea, from which fish of every kind were gathered.

(Matthew 13:48) 
When it was full, they drew it up on the shore, and they sat down and gathered the good ones into vessels, but threw away the bad ones.

(Matthew 13:49) 
So it will be at the end of the age. The angels will go out and separate the evil from among the righteous,

(Matthew 13:50) 
and will throw them into the furnace of fire. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.

(Matthew 13:51) 
Have you understood all these things?" They said to Him, "Yes."

(Matthew 13:52) 
And He said to them: "Therefore, every scribe who has been instructed in the kingdom of heaven is like a master of a household who brings out of his treasure things new and old."

(Matthew 13:53) 
And it happened that when Jesus had finished these parables, He departed from there.

(Matthew 13:54) 
And coming into his hometown, He taught them in their synagogues, so that they were astonished and said, "Where did this man get this wisdom and these mighty works?

(Matthew 13:55) 
Is this not the carpenter's son? Is not His mother called Mary? And are not His brothers James and Joseph and Simon and Judas?

(Matthew 13:56) 
And are not His sisters all with us?" Where did this man get all these things?"

(Matthew 13:57) 
And they took offense at Him. But Jesus said to them: "A prophet is not without honor except in his own country and in his own house."

(Matthew 13:58) 
And He did not do many mighty works there because of their unbelief.

(Matthew 14:1) 
At that time, Herod the tetrarch heard the news about Jesus,

(Matthew 14:2) 
and he said to his servants, “This is John the Baptist. He has risen from the dead, and that is why these miraculous works are happening through him.”

(Matthew 14:3) 
For Herod had arrested John and bound him and put him in prison because of Herodias, the wife of his brother Philip.

(Matthew 14:4) 
John had been telling Herod, “It is not lawful for you to have her.”

(Matthew 14:5) 
And although he wanted to kill him, he feared the people, because they considered John a prophet.

(Matthew 14:6) 
When Herod’s birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced before them, and she pleased Herod.

(Matthew 14:7) 
So he promised with an oath to give her whatever she asked.

(Matthew 14:8) 
Prompted by her mother, she said, “Give me the head of John the Baptist here on a platter.”

(Matthew 14:9) 
The king was distressed, but because of his oath and his guests, he commanded it to be given.

(Matthew 14:10) 
He sent and had John beheaded in the prison.

(Matthew 14:11) 
His head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she took it to her mother.

(Matthew 14:12) 
John’s disciples came and took the body and buried it, and then they went and told Jesus.

(Matthew 14:13) 
When Jesus heard this, He withdrew from there in a boat to a deserted place by Himself. But when the crowds heard it, they followed Him on foot from the towns.

(Matthew 14:14) 
As He went ashore, He saw a large crowd, and He had compassion on them and healed their sick.

(Matthew 14:15) 
When evening came, the disciples came to Him and said, “This is a deserted place, and the hour is already late. Send the crowds away so that they may go into the villages and buy food for themselves.”

(Matthew 14:16) 
But Jesus said to them, “They do not need to go away. You give them something to eat.”

(Matthew 14:17) 
They replied, “We have nothing here except five loaves and two fish.”

(Matthew 14:18) 
And He said, “Bring them here to Me.”

(Matthew 14:19) 
Then He commanded the people to sit down on the grass. Taking the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to the universe, He blessed and broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowds.

(Matthew 14:20) 
And they all ate and were satisfied. And they took up what was left over, twelve full baskets of the fragments.

(Matthew 14:21) 
And those who ate were about five thousand men, besides women and children.

(Matthew 14:22) 
Immediately, Jesus made the disciples get into the boat and go ahead of Him to the other side, while He sent the crowds away.

(Matthew 14:23) 
And after He had sent the crowds away, He went up on the mountain by Himself to pray. When evening came, He was there alone.

(Matthew 14:24) 
But the boat was already a long way from the land, battered by the waves, for the wind was against them.

(Matthew 14:25) 
And in the fourth watch of the night, Jesus came to them, walking on the sea.

(Matthew 14:26) 
And when the disciples saw Him walking on the sea, they were terrified, saying, “It is a ghost!” And they cried out in fear.

(Matthew 14:27) 
But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, “Take courage; it is I. Do not be afraid.”

(Matthew 14:28) 
Peter answered Him and said, “Lord, if it is You, command me to come to You on the water.”

(Matthew 14:29) 
He said, “Come.” And Peter got out of the boat and walked on the water, and came toward Jesus.

(Matthew 14:30) 
But when he saw the wind was strong, he was afraid, and beginning to sink, he cried out, “Lord, save me!”

(Matthew 14:31) 
Immediately Jesus reached out His hand and took hold of him, and said to him, “O you of little faith, why did you doubt?”

(Matthew 14:32) 
And when they got into the boat, the wind ceased.

(Matthew 14:33) 
And those who were in the boat worshiped Him, saying, “Truly You are the Son of God!”

(Matthew 14:34) 
When they had crossed over, they came to the land of Gennesaret.

(Matthew 14:35) 
And when the men of that place recognized Him, they sent word into all that region and brought to Him all the sick.

(Matthew 14:36) 
And they begged Him that they might only touch the fringe of His garment; and as many as touched it were healed.

(Matthew 15:1) 
At that time, the scribes and Pharisees came to Jesus from Jerusalem, and they were saying:

(Matthew 15:2) 
“Why do your disciples break the tradition of our elders? They do not wash their hands before they eat bread.”

(Matthew 15:3) 
Jesus then answered them, and said: “And why do you yourselves break God’s command because of your tradition?

(Matthew 15:4) 
For God said, ‘Honor your father and your mother,’ and, ‘Whoever curses father or mother, let him die.’”

(Matthew 15:5) 
“But you say, ‘Whoever says to his father or mother, “Whatever gift I have from you will benefit you,”

(Matthew 15:6) 
and does not honor his father or his mother,’ you have made void the command of God because of your tradition.

(Matthew 15:7) 
Hypocrites, Isaiah prophesied rightly about you, when he said:

(Matthew 15:8) 
‘This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me.

(Matthew 15:9) 
And in vain they worship me, teaching doctrines and commands of men.’

(Matthew 15:10) 
And calling the crowds to him, he said to them: “Hear and understand.

(Matthew 15:11) 
It is not what goes into the mouth that defiles a man, but what comes out of the mouth that defiles a man.”

(Matthew 15:12) 
Then, approaching him, his disciples said to him: “Do you know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this saying?”

(Matthew 15:13) 
But he answered them, and said: “Every plant which my heavenly Father has not planted will be uprooted.

(Matthew 15:14) 
Leave them be: they are blind, and are leaders of the blind. But if a blind man leads a blind man, both will fall into a pit.”

(Matthew 15:15) 
And Peter answered, and said to him: “Explain to us this parable.”

(Matthew 15:16) 
But Jesus said: “Are you also still without understanding?

(Matthew 15:17) 
Do you not understand that everything that enters the mouth passes into the stomach and is eliminated in the privy?

(Matthew 15:18) 
But the things that proceed out of the mouth come forth from the heart, and these defile a man.

(Matthew 15:19) 
For from the heart come forth evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false testimonies, blasphemies.

(Matthew 15:20) 
These are the things that defile a man. But to eat with unwashed hands does not defile a man.”

(Matthew 15:21) 
And Jesus, going out from there, withdrew to the parts of Tyre and Sidon.

(Matthew 15:22) 
And behold, a Canaanite woman came out from those borders and was crying out, saying to him: “Have mercy on me, Lord, son of David! My daughter is severely vexed by a demon.”

(Matthew 15:23) 
But he did not answer her a word. And his disciples, approaching him, were begging him, saying: “Send her away, because she cries out after us.”

(Matthew 15:24) 
He answered, and said: “I was not sent except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.”

(Matthew 15:25) 
But she came and worshiped him, saying: “Lord, help me.”

(Matthew 15:26) 
He answered, and said: “It is not right to take the bread of the children, and cast it to the dogs.”

(Matthew 15:27) 
But she said: “Yes, Lord; for even the puppies eat of the crumbs that fall from their masters’ table.”

(Matthew 15:28) 
Then Jesus answered, and said to her: “O woman, great is your faith! Let it be done for you as you wish.” And her daughter was healed at that moment.

(Matthew 15:29) 
And Jesus, having passed on from there, came near the sea of Galilee, and going up into a mountain, was sitting there.

(Matthew 15:30) 
And many crowds came to him, bringing with them the mute, the blind, the lame, the infirm, and many others. And they cast them down at his feet, and he healed them.

(Matthew 15:31) 
So that the crowds were astonished, seeing the mute speaking, the lame walking, and the blind seeing, and they glorified the God of Israel.

(Matthew 15:32) 
Then Jesus, calling his disciples, said: “I have compassion on the crowds, because they have been with me now for three days, and they have nothing to eat. And I do not want to send them away hungry, lest they faint on the way.”

(Matthew 15:33) 
And his disciples said to him: “Where do we get so many loaves in the wilderness so that we can satisfy such a large crowd?”

(Matthew 15:34) 
And Jesus said to them: “How many loaves do you have?” And they said: “Seven, and a few small fishes.”

(Matthew 15:35) 
And he commanded the crowds to recline on the ground.

(Matthew 15:36) 
And having taken the seven loaves and the fishes, and giving thanks, he broke them and gave them to his disciples; and the disciples gave them to the crowds.

(Matthew 15:37) 
And they all ate and were satisfied. And they took up what remained, seven baskets full of fragments.

(Matthew 15:38) 
Now those who had eaten were four thousand men, besides women and children.

(Matthew 15:39) 
And having dismissed the crowds, he went into the boat, and came into the borders of Magadan.

(Matthew 16:1) 
Jesus went to the region of Caesarea Philippi, and He asked His disciples, “What do men say that I, the Son of Man, am?”

(Matthew 16:2) 
And they said: “Some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and still others say Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.”

(Matthew 16:3) 
Jesus said to them, “But you, who do you say that I am?”

(Matthew 16:4) 
Then Simon Peter answered, saying, “You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.”

(Matthew 16:5) 
Then Jesus answered, saying to him, “Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jona; for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but My Father Who is in the universe.

(Matthew 16:6) 
And I say to you, that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build My Church, and the gates of Hell shall not prevail against it.

(Matthew 16:7) 
And I will give to you the keys of the kingdom of the sky. Whatever you bind on earth will be bound in the sky. And whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in the sky.”

(Matthew 16:8) 
Then He commanded the disciples that they should tell no one that He was the Christ.

(Matthew 16:9) 
From that time on, Jesus began to show His disciples that He must go to Jerusalem, and suffer many things from the elders and scribes and chief priests, and be killed, and on the third day rise again.

(Matthew 16:10) 
And Peter took Him aside and began to rebuke Him, saying, “God forbid, Lord! This shall never happen to You!”

(Matthew 16:11) 
But He turned and said to Peter, “Get behind Me, Satan! You are an offense to Me, because you are not mindful of the things of God, but the things of men.”

(Matthew 16:12) 
Then Jesus said to His disciples, “If anyone desires to come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow Me.

(Matthew 16:13) 
For whoever wants to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for My sake will find it.

(Matthew 16:14) 
For what is a man profited if he gains the whole world, and loses his own soul? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul?

(Matthew 16:15) 
For the Son of Man will come in the glory of His Father with His angels, and then He will reward each one according to his works.

(Matthew 16:16) 
Assuredly, I say to you, there are some standing here who shall not taste death until they see the Son of Man coming in His kingdom.”

(Matthew 17:1) 
Six days later, Jesus took Peter, and James, and his brother John, and led them up a high mountain, just the three of them.

(Matthew 17:2) 
And he was transfigured before their eyes. His face shone like the sun, and his clothes became white as snow.

(Matthew 17:3) 
And behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them, talking with him.

(Matthew 17:4) 
Then Peter responded to Jesus and said: “Lord, it is good for us to be here. If you wish, I will make three tents here, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.”

(Matthew 17:5) 
As he was still speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and behold, a voice from the cloud, saying: “This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Listen to him.”

(Matthew 17:6) 
When the disciples heard this, they fell on their faces, and were very afraid.

(Matthew 17:7) 
But Jesus came and touched them, and said: “Get up, and do not be afraid.”

(Matthew 17:8) 
When they looked up, they saw no one except Jesus alone.

(Matthew 17:9) 
As they were coming down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying: “Tell no one the vision, until the Son of Man rises from the dead.”

(Matthew 17:10) 
And his disciples asked him, saying: “Why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?”

(Matthew 17:11) 
And answering, he said to them: “Elijah will come, and he will restore all things.”

(Matthew 17:12) 
“But I say to you that Elijah has already come, and they did not know him, but did to him whatever they wished. So also the Son of Man will suffer at their hands.”

(Matthew 17:13) 
Then the disciples understood that he was speaking to them about John the Baptist.

(Matthew 17:14) 
And when they came to the crowd, a man came to him, kneeling before him.

(Matthew 17:15) 
He said: “Lord, have mercy on my son, because he is epileptic and suffers terribly, for he often falls into the fire and often into the water.

(Matthew 17:16) 
I brought him to your disciples, but they could not cure him.”

(Matthew 17:17) 
Then Jesus answered and said: “O faithless and perverse generation, how long will I be with you? How long will I endure you? Bring him here to me.”

(Matthew 17:18) 
And Jesus rebuked the demon, and it came out of the boy, and the boy was cured from that hour.

(Matthew 17:19) 
Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said: “Why could we not cast it out?”

(Matthew 17:20) 
Jesus said to them: “Because of your lack of faith. For truly I say to you, if you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you.”

(Matthew 17:21) 
“But this kind does not come out except by prayer and fasting.”

(Matthew 17:22) 
While they were staying in Galilee, Jesus said to them: “The Son of Man is going to be handed over into the hands of men.

(Matthew 17:23) 
And they will kill him, and on the third day he will rise again.” And they were exceedingly sorrowful.

(Matthew 17:24) 
When they came to Capernaum, the collectors of the two-drachma tax came to Peter and said: “Does your teacher not pay the two-drachma tax?”

(Matthew 17:25) 
He said: “Yes.” And when he came into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying: “What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth collect customs or tribute? From their sons or from strangers?”

(Matthew 17:26) 
He said: “From strangers.” Jesus said to him: “Therefore, the sons are free.”

(Matthew 17:27) 
“However, so that we do not offend them, go to the sea and cast a hook, and take the first fish that comes up, and when you open its mouth, you will find a stater. Give that for me and for you.”

(Matthew 18:1) 
At that time, the disciples approached Jesus and asked, “Who is the greatest in the kingdom of the sky?”

(Matthew 18:2) 
Jesus then called a little child, and made him stand in their midst,

(Matthew 18:3) 
and said: “I assure you: unless you change and become like little children, you will not enter the kingdom of the sky.

(Matthew 18:4) 
Whoever humbles himself like this little child is the greatest in the kingdom of the sky.

(Matthew 18:5) 
And whoever welcomes one such child in My name welcomes Me.

(Matthew 18:6) 
But whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in Me to sin, it would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were drowned in the depths of the sea.

(Matthew 18:7) 
Woe to the world because of scandals! For it is necessary that scandals come, but woe to the man by whom the scandal comes!

(Matthew 18:8) 
If your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life maimed or lame than to have two hands or two feet and be thrown into eternal fire.

(Matthew 18:9) 
And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life with one eye than to have two eyes and be thrown into the hell of fire.

(Matthew 18:10) 
See that you do not despise one of these little ones, for I tell you that their angels in the sky always behold the face of My Father who is in the sky.

(Matthew 18:11) 
For the Son of Man came to save what was lost.

(Matthew 18:12) 
What do you think? If someone has a hundred sheep, and one of them goes astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine on the mountains and go in search of the one that went astray?

(Matthew 18:13) 
And if he finds it, I assure you that he rejoices more over it than over the ninety-nine that did not go astray.

(Matthew 18:14) 
Therefore, it is not the will of your Father who is in the sky that one of these little ones should perish.

(Matthew 18:15) 
If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother.

(Matthew 18:16) 
But if he does not listen, take one or two others with you, that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be confirmed.

(Matthew 18:17) 
If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the Church. And if he refuses to listen even to the Church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector.

(Matthew 18:18) 
I assure you: whatever you bind on earth will be bound in the sky, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in the sky.

(Matthew 18:19) 
Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by My Father who is in the sky.

(Matthew 18:20) 
For where two or three are gathered in My name, there am I in the midst of them.

(Matthew 18:21) 
Then Peter came to Him and said, “Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Up to seven times?”

(Matthew 18:22) 
Jesus said to him, “I do not say to you up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven.

(Matthew 18:23) 
For this reason, the kingdom of the sky is compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants.

(Matthew 18:24) 
When he began to settle accounts, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents.

(Matthew 18:25) 
And as he was not able to pay, his master ordered him to be sold, with his wife and children and all that he had, and payment to be made.

(Matthew 18:26) 
So the servant fell down and implored him, saying, ‘Have patience with me, and I will pay you everything.’

(Matthew 18:27) 
And out of pity for the servant, the master released him and forgave him the debt.

(Matthew 18:28) 
But when that same servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii. And seizing him, he choked him, saying, ‘Pay what you owe.’

(Matthew 18:29) 
So his fellow servant fell down and begged him, saying, ‘Have patience with me, and I will pay you everything.’

(Matthew 18:30) 
But he was unwilling and went and put him in prison until he should pay the debt.

(Matthew 18:31) 
When his fellow servants saw what had happened, they were greatly distressed, and they went and reported to their master all that had taken place.

(Matthew 18:32) 
Then his master summoned him and said to him, ‘You wicked servant! I forgave you all that debt because you begged me.

(Matthew 18:33) 
Should you not also have had mercy on your fellow servant, as I had mercy on you?’

(Matthew 18:34) 
And in anger his master delivered him to the jailers, until he should pay all his debt.

(Matthew 18:35) 
So also My heavenly Father will do to you, if each of you does not forgive his brother from your hearts.

(Matthew 19:1) 
After Jesus had finished saying these things, He left Galilee and went to the territory of Judea on the other side of the Jordan.

(Matthew 19:2) 
Large crowds followed Him, and He healed them there.

(Matthew 19:3) 
The Pharisees came to Him and tried to test Him, asking, “Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any reason?”

(Matthew 19:4) 
He answered and said to them, “Haven’t you read that the One who made mankind in the beginning made them male and female?”

(Matthew 19:5) 
And He said, ‘For this reason, a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh.’

(Matthew 19:6) 
So they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together, let no man separate.”

(Matthew 19:7) 
They said to Him, “Then why did Moses command to give a certificate of divorce and to dismiss her?”

(Matthew 19:8) 
He said to them, “Moses permitted you to divorce your wives because of the hardness of your hearts, but it was not so from the beginning.

(Matthew 19:9) 
I tell you that whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another, commits adultery.”

(Matthew 19:10) 
His disciples said to Him, “If the case of a man with his wife is like this, it is better not to marry.”

(Matthew 19:11) 
But He said to them, “Not everyone can receive this saying, but those to whom it has been given.

(Matthew 19:12) 
For there are eunuchs who were born that way from their mother’s womb, and there are eunuchs who were made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Let anyone who can receive this, receive it.”

(Matthew 19:13) 
Then children were brought to Him so that He might lay His hands on them and pray. The disciples rebuked them,

(Matthew 19:14) 
But Jesus said, “Let the little children come to Me, and do not forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of heaven.”

(Matthew 19:15) 
And after He laid hands on them, He departed from there.

(Matthew 19:16) 
And behold, one came to Him and said, “Good Teacher, what good thing shall I do to obtain eternal life?”

(Matthew 19:17) 
But He said to him, “Why are you asking Me about what is good? There is only One who is good. But if you want to enter into life, keep the commandments.”

(Matthew 19:18) 
He said to Him, “Which ones?” And Jesus said, “You shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness,

(Matthew 19:19) 
honor your father and your mother, and you shall love your neighbor as yourself.”

(Matthew 19:20) 
The young man said to Him, “All these things I have kept. What am I still lacking?”

(Matthew 19:21) 
Jesus said to him, “If you wish to be perfect, go, sell your possessions and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. And come, follow Me.”

(Matthew 19:22) 
When the young man heard this, he went away sad, for he had many possessions.

(Matthew 19:23) 
And Jesus said to His disciples, “Truly I say to you, it is hard for a rich person to enter the kingdom of heaven.

(Matthew 19:24) 
Again I say to you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.”

(Matthew 19:25) 
When His disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished, saying, “Who then can be saved?”

(Matthew 19:26) 
But Jesus looked at them and said, “With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.”

(Matthew 19:27) 
Then Peter responded and said to Him, “Behold, we have forsaken everything and followed You. What then will there be for us?”

(Matthew 19:28) 
And Jesus said to them, “Truly I say to you, in the regeneration, when the Son of Man sits on His glorious throne, you who have followed Me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.

(Matthew 19:29) 
And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or fields for My name’s sake will receive many times more, and will inherit eternal life.

(Matthew 19:30) 
But many who are first will be last, and the last first.”

(Matthew 20:1) 
The Kingdom of Heaven is like a man who owned a vineyard. He went out early in the morning looking to hire workers for his vineyard.

(Matthew 20:2) 
After he agreed to pay the workers a denarius for a day's work, he sent them to his vineyard.

(Matthew 20:3) 
He went out again at about the third hour of the day and found others standing idle in the marketplace,

(Matthew 20:4) 
and said to them, 'Go into my vineyard too, and I will give you whatever is fair.' And so they went.

(Matthew 20:5) 
He went out again at about the sixth and ninth hours of the day, and did the same.

(Matthew 20:6) 
And about the eleventh hour, he went out and found still others standing there, and he said to them, 'Why are you standing here idle all day?'

(Matthew 20:7) 
They said to him, 'Because nobody hired us.' He said to them, 'Go into my vineyard too.'

(Matthew 20:8) 
When evening came, the owner of the vineyard said to his manager, 'Call the workers and pay them their wages, starting with the last ones hired and going to the first.'

(Matthew 20:9) 
So when those hired at the eleventh hour came, each one received a denarius.

(Matthew 20:10) 
When the first ones came, they thought they would receive more, but they too received a denarius.

(Matthew 20:11) 
When they received it, they began to complain about the owner of the vineyard,

(Matthew 20:12) 
saying, 'These last ones worked only one hour, and yet you have made them equal to us, who have borne the burden of the day and the heat.'

(Matthew 20:13) 
But he replied to one of them, 'Friend, I do you no wrong. Did you not agree with me for a denarius?

(Matthew 20:14) 
Take what belongs to you and go. I want to give to this last one the same as I gave to you.

(Matthew 20:15) 
Am I not allowed to do what I want with my own things? Or are you envious because I am generous?'

(Matthew 20:16) 
In this way the last will be first, and the first will be last. Many are called, but few are chosen.

(Matthew 20:17) 
As Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside in private and said to them,

(Matthew 20:18) 
“Look, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be handed over to the chief priests and the scribes. They will condemn him to death,

(Matthew 20:19) 
and will hand him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified, and on the third day he will be raised.”

(Matthew 20:20) 
Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came to Jesus with her sons. She knelt down and asked him for a favor.

(Matthew 20:21) 
He said to her, “What do you want?” She replied, “Grant that these two sons of mine may sit, one at your right hand and the other at your left, in your kingdom.”

(Matthew 20:22) 
But Jesus answered, “You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am going to drink?”

(Matthew 20:23) 
They said to him, “We are able.” Jesus said to them, “You will indeed drink my cup, but to sit at my right and left is not mine to grant. These places belong to those for whom they have been prepared by my Father.”

(Matthew 20:24) 
When the other ten disciples heard about this, they became indignant with the two brothers.

(Matthew 20:25) 
But Jesus called them to him and said, “You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them.

(Matthew 20:26) 
It shall not be this way among you; but whoever wants to become great among you must be your servant,

(Matthew 20:27) 
and whoever wants to be first among you must be your slave,

(Matthew 20:28) 
just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.”

(Matthew 20:29) 
As they were leaving Jericho, a large crowd followed him.

(Matthew 20:30) 
And two blind men sitting beside the road heard that Jesus was passing by. They cried out, “Lord, Son of David, have mercy on us!”

(Matthew 20:31) 
The crowd rebuked them and told them to be quiet, but they shouted all the more, “Lord, Son of David, have mercy on us!”

(Matthew 20:32) 
Jesus stopped and called them. He asked, “What do you want me to do for you?”

(Matthew 20:33) 
They said to him, “Lord, we want our eyes to be opened.”

(Matthew 20:34) 
Jesus, moved with compassion, touched their eyes, and immediately they received their sight and followed him.

(Matthew 21:1) 
When they drew near to Jerusalem and arrived at Bethphage on the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two disciples,

(Matthew 21:2) 
saying to them, “Go into the village that is opposite you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied, and a colt with her; untie them and bring them to me.”

(Matthew 21:3) 
If anyone says anything to you, tell them that the Lord has need of them, and immediately he will let them go.”

(Matthew 21:4) 
All this happened so that what was spoken by the prophet would be fulfilled, saying,

(Matthew 21:5) 
“Tell the daughter of Zion, ‘Behold, your King comes to you, meek, and sitting on a donkey, and a colt, the foal of a donkey.’”

(Matthew 21:6) 
So the disciples went and did as Jesus had directed them.

(Matthew 21:7) 
They brought the donkey and the colt, and put their garments on them, and He sat on them.

(Matthew 21:8) 
Most of the crowd spread their garments on the road, and others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road.

(Matthew 21:9) 
The crowds, who went before Him and who followed Him, cried out, saying, “Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest!”

(Matthew 21:10) 
And when He entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred up, saying, “Who is this?”

(Matthew 21:11) 
The crowds said, “This is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth of Galilee.”

(Matthew 21:12) 
And Jesus entered the temple of God and drove out all those who were selling and buying in the temple, and He overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who were selling doves.

(Matthew 21:13) 
He said to them, “It is written, ‘My house shall be called a house of prayer,’ but you have made it a den of robbers.”

(Matthew 21:14) 
And the blind and the lame came to Him in the temple, and He healed them.

(Matthew 21:15) 
But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonders that He did, and the children crying out in the temple, “Hosanna to the Son of David,” they were indignant.

(Matthew 21:16) 
And they said to Him, “Do You hear what these are saying?” Jesus said to them, “Yes; have you never read, ‘Out of the mouth of infants and nursing babies You have prepared praise’?”

(Matthew 21:17) 
And leaving them, He went out of the city to Bethany, and lodged there.

(Matthew 21:18) 
Now in the morning, as He was returning to the city, He became hungry.

(Matthew 21:19) 
Seeing a fig tree by the road, He went to it and found nothing on it except leaves, and He said to it, “May no fruit ever come from you again.” And immediately the fig tree withered.

(Matthew 21:20) 
Seeing this, the disciples were amazed, and said, “How did the fig tree wither at once?”

(Matthew 21:21) 
And Jesus answered and said to them, “Truly I say to you, if you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what was done to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, ‘Be taken up and cast into the sea,’ it will happen.

(Matthew 21:22) 
And all things you ask in prayer, believing, you will receive.”

(Matthew 21:23) 
And when He came into the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came to Him while He was teaching, and said, “By what authority are You doing these things, and who gave You this authority?”

(Matthew 21:24) 
Jesus answered and said to them, “I will also ask you one thing, which if you tell Me, I will also tell you by what authority I do these things.

(Matthew 21:25) 
The baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men?” They reasoned with themselves, saying,

(Matthew 21:26) 
“If we say, ‘From heaven,’ He will say to us, ‘Then why did you not believe him?’ But if we say, ‘From men,’ we fear the crowd, for they all regard John as a prophet.”

(Matthew 21:27) 
So they answered Jesus and said, “We do not know.” He also said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.”

(Matthew 21:28) 
“But what do you think? A man had two sons, and he came to the first and said, ‘Son, go work today in my vineyard.’

(Matthew 21:29) 
“And he answered and said, ‘I will not’; but afterward he regretted it and went.

(Matthew 21:30) 
“The man came to the second and said the same thing. And he answered and said, ‘I will, sir’; but he did not go.

(Matthew 21:31) 
“Which of the two did the will of his father?” They said, “The first.” Jesus said to them, “Truly I say to you that the tax collectors and prostitutes will get into the kingdom of God before you.

(Matthew 21:32) 
“For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him; but the tax collectors and prostitutes did believe him; and you, seeing this, did not even feel remorse afterward so as to believe him.

(Matthew 21:33) 
“Hear another parable. There was a landowner who planted a vineyard and put a hedge around it and dug a wine press in it, and built a tower, and rented it out to vine-growers and went on a journey.

(Matthew 21:34) 
“When the harvest time approached, he sent his slaves to the vine-growers to receive his fruits.

(Matthew 21:35) 
“The vine-growers took his slaves and beat one, killed another, and stoned a third.

(Matthew 21:36) 
“Again he sent other slaves, more than the first; and they did the same to them.

(Matthew 21:37) 
“Finally he sent his son to them, saying, ‘They will respect my son.’

(Matthew 21:38) 
“But when the vine-growers saw the son, they said among themselves, ‘This is the heir; come, let us kill him and seize his inheritance.’

(Matthew 21:39) 
“And they took him, and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him.

(Matthew 21:40) 
“Therefore when the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those vine-growers?”

(Matthew 21:41) 
They said to Him, “He will bring those wretches to a wretched end, and will rent out the vineyard to other vine-growers who will pay him the fruits in their seasons.”

(Matthew 21:42) 
Jesus said to them, “Have you never read in the Scriptures, ‘The stone which the builders rejected, This became the chief corner stone; This came about from the Lord, and it is marvelous in our eyes’?

(Matthew 21:43) 
“Therefore I say to you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a nation producing the fruit of it.

(Matthew 21:44) 
“And the one who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces; but on whomever it falls, it will crush him.”

(Matthew 21:45) 
When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard His parables, they understood that He was speaking about them.

(Matthew 21:46) 
And although they sought to arrest Him, they feared the crowds, because they regarded Him as a prophet.

(Matthew 22:1) 
Jesus again spoke to them in parables, saying:

(Matthew 22:2) 
“The kingdom of the universe is like a king who prepared a wedding banquet for his son.

(Matthew 22:3) 
He sent his servants to summon those who were invited, but they refused to come.

(Matthew 22:4) 
Then he sent more servants, saying, ‘Tell those who were invited that I have prepared my dinner. My oxen and fattened cattle have been slaughtered, and everything is ready. Come to the wedding banquet!’

(Matthew 22:5) 
But they paid no attention and went their ways, one to his farm, another to his business.

(Matthew 22:6) 
The rest seized his servants, mistreated them, and killed them.

(Matthew 22:7) 
The king was enraged and sent his troops to destroy those murderers and burn their cities.

(Matthew 22:8) 
Then he said to his servants, ‘The wedding banquet is ready, but those who were invited were not worthy.

(Matthew 22:9) 
Go therefore to the main roads and invite to the banquet whomever you find.’

(Matthew 22:10) 
So the servants went out into the streets and gathered all they could find, both good and bad, and the wedding hall was filled with guests.

(Matthew 22:11) 
But when the king came in to look at the guests, he saw a man there who was not dressed in a wedding garment.

(Matthew 22:12) 
He said to him, ‘Friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment?’ And the man was speechless.

(Matthew 22:13) 
Then the king said to his attendants, ‘Tie him hand and foot and throw him into the outer darkness, where there will be wailing and gnashing of teeth.’

(Matthew 22:14) 
For many are called, but few are chosen.”

(Matthew 22:15) 
Then the Pharisees went off and plotted how to trap Jesus in what he said.

(Matthew 22:16) 
They sent their disciples to him, along with the Herodians, saying, “Teacher, we know that you are truthful and teach the way of God in accordance with the truth, and you are not concerned with anyone’s opinion, for you do not regard a person’s status.

(Matthew 22:17) 
So tell us your opinion: Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?”

(Matthew 22:18) 
But Jesus, aware of their malice, said, “Why are you putting me to the test, you hypocrites?

(Matthew 22:19) 
Show me the coin used for the tax.” And they brought him a denarius.

(Matthew 22:20) 
Then he said to them, “Whose image is this, and whose inscription?”

(Matthew 22:21) 
They replied, “Caesar’s.” Then he said to them, “So give to Caesar what is Caesar’s, and to God what is God’s.”

(Matthew 22:22) 
When they heard this, they were amazed, and they left him and went away.

(Matthew 22:23) 
On that day, the Sadducees came to him, saying that there is no resurrection, and they questioned him,

(Matthew 22:24) 
saying, “Teacher, Moses said, ‘If a man dies without having children, his brother must take the wife and raise up offspring for his brother.’

(Matthew 22:25) 
Now there were seven brothers among us. The first married and died, and since he had no children, he left his wife to his brother.

(Matthew 22:26) 
The same happened with the second and the third, down to the seventh.

(Matthew 22:27) 
Finally, the woman died.

(Matthew 22:28) 
In the resurrection, therefore, whose wife will the woman be? For all seven had been married to her.”

(Matthew 22:29) 
Jesus answered and said to them, “You are mistaken because you know neither the Scriptures nor the power of God.

(Matthew 22:30) 
For in the resurrection, people will neither marry nor be given in marriage, but they will be like the angels of God in the universe.

(Matthew 22:31) 
And as for the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was spoken to you by God, who said:

(Matthew 22:32) 
‘I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’? He is not the God of the dead but of the living.”

(Matthew 22:33) 
When the crowds heard this, they were astonished at his teaching.

(Matthew 22:34) 
But when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together.

(Matthew 22:35) 
And one of them, an expert in the law, tested him with this question:

(Matthew 22:36) 
“Teacher, which commandment in the law is the greatest?”

(Matthew 22:37) 
Jesus said to him, “You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind.”

(Matthew 22:38) 
This is the greatest and first commandment.

(Matthew 22:39) 
And the second is like it: ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’

(Matthew 22:40) 
On these two commandments depend all the law and the prophets.”

(Matthew 22:41) 
While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them,

(Matthew 22:42) 
saying, “What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he?”

(Matthew 22:43) 
They said to him, “David’s.”

(Matthew 22:44) 
He said to them, “Then how is it that David, in the Spirit, calls him Lord, saying:

(Matthew 22:45) 
‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet.”’

(Matthew 22:46) 
If then David calls him Lord, how is he his son?”

(Matthew 22:47) 
No one could answer him a word, and from that day on no one dared to question him any further.

(Matthew 23:1) 
Jesus then spoke to the crowds of people and to His disciples,

(Matthew 23:2) 
saying, "The scribes and the Pharisees have taken their place as the official teachers of Moses' Law."

(Matthew 23:3) 
Therefore, you must observe and do everything they tell you, because they teach God's Law. But do not live according to their works, for they say one thing and do not practice what they preach.

(Matthew 23:4) 
They tie up heavy, burdensome loads of rules and regulations and place them on people's shoulders. But they themselves are unwilling to move these burdens with even a single finger.

(Matthew 23:5) 
All of their works are done to be seen and admired by other people. They make their phylacteries very broad—these are the small boxes containing Scripture worn on the forehead and arm during prayer—and they make the fringes of their garments very long.

(Matthew 23:6) 
They love the places of honor at dinner parties and the most prominent seats in the synagogues, which are places of worship and community gathering.

(Matthew 23:7) 
They love greetings of respect in the marketplaces, and they love to be called 'Rabbi'—meaning 'my great one' or 'my master'—by people.

(Matthew 23:8) 
But you, my followers, must not allow yourselves to be called 'Rabbi,' for only one is your Master, who is Christ. All of you are brothers and sisters in Christ.

(Matthew 23:9) 
Do not call anyone on earth your 'father' in a spiritual sense, for you have only one Father, who is in heaven.

(Matthew 23:10) 
Nor are you to be called 'teachers' or 'guides' in this way, for your one and only true Teacher is Christ.

(Matthew 23:11) 
Whoever is greatest among you must be your servant.

(Matthew 23:12) 
For whoever humbles himself will be exalted by God. And whoever exalts himself will be humbled by God.

(Matthew 23:13) 
But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! For you shut the kingdom of heaven in people's faces. You yourselves do not enter it, nor do you allow those who are trying to enter to go in.

(Matthew 23:14) 
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! For you devour widows' houses—meaning you exploit and steal from vulnerable women—while making long, showy prayers. Because of this, you will receive a greater judgment from God.

(Matthew 23:15) 
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! For you travel across the sea and the dry land to make one convert to Judaism. And when he is made a convert, you make him twice as much a child of Gehenna—a place of eternal punishment and destruction—as yourselves.

(Matthew 23:16) 
Woe to you, you blind guides! You teach, 'Whoever swears an oath by the Temple, it means nothing. But whoever swears an oath by the gold of the Temple, that oath is binding.'

(Matthew 23:17) 
You are foolish and blind! For which is greater: the gold, or the Temple that makes the gold sacred?

(Matthew 23:18) 
And you also say, 'Whoever swears an oath by the altar, it means nothing. But whoever swears an oath by the gift that is on the altar, that oath is binding.'

(Matthew 23:19) 
You are blind! For which is greater: the gift, or the altar that makes the gift sacred?

(Matthew 23:20) 
Therefore, whoever swears an oath by the altar is swearing an oath by it and by everything that is on it.

(Matthew 23:21) 
And whoever swears an oath by the Temple is swearing an oath by it and by God, who dwells within it.

(Matthew 23:22) 
And whoever swears an oath by heaven is swearing an oath by God's throne and by God Himself, who sits upon it.

(Matthew 23:23) 
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! For you carefully tithe even the smallest garden herbs like mint, dill, and cumin. Yet you have neglected the more important matters of the Law: justice, mercy, and faithfulness to God. You ought to have practiced these weightier matters without neglecting the others.

(Matthew 23:24) 
You blind guides! You strain out a gnat from your drink, yet you swallow a camel. This means you obsess over minor rules but ignore major commands of God.

(Matthew 23:25) 
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! For you clean the outside of the cup and the dish, but inside, they are full of greed, extortion, and impurity.

(Matthew 23:26) 
You blind Pharisee! First, clean the inside of the cup and the dish, so that the outside may also become truly clean. This is about inner spiritual purity before outward appearance.

(Matthew 23:27) 
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed tombs, which appear beautiful and clean on the outside to people. But inside, they are full of the bones of the dead and every kind of filth and impurity.

(Matthew 23:28) 
In the same way, on the outside, you appear righteous to people. But inside, you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness.

(Matthew 23:29) 
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! For you build tombs for the prophets and decorate the memorials of the righteous.

(Matthew 23:30) 
And you say, 'If we had lived in the days of our ancestors, we would not have participated with them in shedding the blood of the prophets.'

(Matthew 23:31) 
So you yourselves bear witness against yourselves that you are indeed the descendants of those who murdered the prophets.

(Matthew 23:32) 
Go on, then, and fill up the measure of your ancestors' guilt.

(Matthew 23:33) 
You serpents, you brood of vipers! How will you escape the judgment of Gehenna—the place of eternal punishment?

(Matthew 23:34) 
Therefore, behold, I am sending to you prophets, wise men, and scribes. Some of them you will kill and crucify, and some of them you will flog in your synagogues, and you will persecute them from city to city.

(Matthew 23:35) 
This is so that all the righteous blood shed on the earth may come upon you, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, son of Barachiah, whom you murdered between the Temple and the altar.

(Matthew 23:36) 
Truly, I tell you, all these things will come upon this present generation.

(Matthew 23:37) 
O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you who kill the prophets and stone those who are sent to you! How often I longed to gather your children together, just as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, but you were unwilling to let me!

(Matthew 23:38) 
Behold, your house—meaning your Temple and your city—is being left to you desolate and deserted.

(Matthew 23:39) 
For I tell you, you will not see Me again from now on until you say, 'Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord.'

(Matthew 24:24:1) 
And as Jesus was leaving the Temple, He was going away. Then His disciples came to Him to show Him the buildings of the Temple.

(Matthew 24:24:2) 
But He, answering, said to them: "Do you see all these things? Truly, I tell you, not a single stone will be left here upon another stone that will not be thrown down (destroyed)."

(Matthew 24:24:3) 
And as He was sitting on the Mount of Olives, His disciples came to Him privately, saying: "Tell us, when will these things happen? And what will be the sign of your coming, and of the end of the age (the completion of time as we know it)?"

(Matthew 24:24:4) 
And Jesus, answering, said to them: "Be careful that no one misleads you:

(Matthew 24:24:5) 
for many will come in my name, saying: 'I am the Anointed One (the Christ)!' and they will mislead many people.

(Matthew 24:24:6) 
For you will hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not alarmed; for it is necessary for these things to happen, but the end is not yet.

(Matthew 24:24:7) 
For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; and there will be plagues (diseases), and famines, and earthquakes in various places:

(Matthew 24:24:8) 
but all these things are only the beginning of sorrows (or birth pangs).

(Matthew 24:24:9) 
Then they will hand you over to tribulation, and they will kill you; and you will be hated by all nations because of my name.

(Matthew 24:24:10) 
And then many will be scandalized (will fall away from the faith into sin or unbelief), and they will betray one another, and they will hate one another.

(Matthew 24:24:11) 
And many false prophets will rise up, and they will mislead many.

(Matthew 24:24:12) 
And because wickedness has abounded (will increase greatly), the charity (the supernatural love for God and neighbor) of many will grow cold.

(Matthew 24:24:13) 
But he who perseveres (remains steadfast in faith and good works) to the end will be saved.

(Matthew 24:24:14) 
And this Gospel (Good News) of the Kingdom will be preached throughout the whole world (the entire planet), as a testimony to all nations: and then the end (the consummation of all things) will come.

(Matthew 24:24:15) 
Therefore, when you see the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of by Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place — whoever reads, let him understand:

(Matthew 24:24:16) 
then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains:

(Matthew 24:24:17) 
and let him who is on the housetop (the flat roof of his house) not come down to take anything from his house:

(Matthew 24:24:18) 
and let him who is in the field not return to get his cloak.

(Matthew 24:24:19) 
But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing infants in those days!

(Matthew 24:24:20) 
And pray that your flight (fleeing) may not be in winter, or on the Sabbath (when travel was restricted by religious law):

(Matthew 24:24:21) 
For then there will be great tribulation, such as has not been from the beginning of the world until now, nor ever will be.

(Matthew 24:24:22) 
And unless those days had been shortened, no living thing (no human life) would be saved: but for the sake of the elect (God's chosen people) those days will be shortened.

(Matthew 24:24:23) 
Then if anyone says to you: 'Look, here is the Anointed One (the Christ)!' or 'There!', do not believe it.

(Matthew 24:24:24) 
For false Anointed Ones (false Christs) and false prophets will arise: and they will show great signs and wonders, so as to mislead, if it were possible, even the elect (God's chosen people).

(Matthew 24:24:25) 
Behold, I have told you beforehand.

(Matthew 24:24:26) 
Therefore, if they say to you: 'Look, He is in the desert!' do not go out: 'Look, He is in the inner rooms (secret chambers)!' do not believe it.

(Matthew 24:24:27) 
For just as lightning comes from the East and flashes even to the West across the sky: so will be the coming of the Son of Man.

(Matthew 24:24:28) 
Wherever the dead body (carrion) is, there the eagles (vultures) will gather.

(Matthew 24:24:29) 
But immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from the sky (the visible cosmos), and the celestial powers (the spiritual forces of the heavens) will be shaken.

(Matthew 24:24:30) 
And then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky: and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn (lament): and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky, with great power and majesty.

(Matthew 24:24:31) 
And He will send His Angels with a trumpet call and a loud voice: and they will gather His elect (His chosen people) from the four winds (from all directions), from one end of the universe to the other (from the highest reaches of the cosmos to its very ends).

(Matthew 24:24:32) 
Now learn a parable (a lesson) from the fig tree: When its branch is already tender and puts forth leaves, you know that summer is near:

(Matthew 24:24:33) 
So also, when you see all these things, know that He (the time of His coming) is near, at the doors.

(Matthew 24:24:34) 
Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things have happened (come to pass).

(Matthew 24:24:35) 
The universe and the earth will pass away (will come to an end), but my words will not pass away (will endure forever).

(Matthew 24:24:36) 
But concerning that day and hour, no one knows, not even the Angels of the heavens (the spiritual realms), but the Father alone.

(Matthew 24:24:37) 
For just as were the days of Noah, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.

(Matthew 24:24:38) 
For as they were in the days before the flood, eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day that Noah entered the ark,

(Matthew 24:24:39) 
and they did not understand (or know) until the flood came and swept them all away: so also will be the coming of the Son of Man.

(Matthew 24:24:40) 
Then two men will be in the field: one will be taken (assumed to God), and the other will be left behind.

(Matthew 24:24:41) 
Two women will be grinding at the mill: one will be taken (assumed to God), and one will be left behind.

(Matthew 24:24:42) 
Therefore, be vigilant (keep watch), for you do not know at what hour your Lord is coming.

(Matthew 24:24:43) 
But know this, that if the master of the house had known at what hour the thief was coming, he would certainly have kept watch, and would not have allowed his house to be broken into (dug through).

(Matthew 24:24:44) 
Therefore, you also be ready: for at an hour you do not expect, the Son of Man will come.

(Matthew 24:24:45) 
Who then, do you think, is the faithful and prudent (wise) servant, whom his master has set over his household (his family), to give them food at the proper time?

(Matthew 24:24:46) 
Blessed is that servant whom his master, when he comes, will find doing so (carrying out his duty faithfully).

(Matthew 24:24:47) 
Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions (all his property).

(Matthew 24:24:48) 
But if that wicked servant says in his heart: 'My master delays his coming (is taking a long time to return):'

(Matthew 24:24:49) 
and begins to beat his fellow servants, and to eat and drink with drunkards:

(Matthew 24:24:50) 
the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him, and at an hour when he does not know (is unaware):

(Matthew 24:24:51) 
and will cut him in pieces (severely punish him), and appoint his portion with the hypocrites. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.

(Matthew 25:1) 
At that time, the Kingdom of God will be compared to ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom.

(Matthew 25:2) 
Five of them were foolish, and five were wise.

(Matthew 25:3) 
The foolish ones, when they took their lamps, did not take any oil for them.

(Matthew 25:4) 
But the wise ones took oil in their containers along with their lamps.

(Matthew 25:5) 
As the bridegroom was delayed, all of them became drowsy and fell asleep.

(Matthew 25:6) 
But at midnight, a shout was heard: 'Behold, the bridegroom is coming! Go out to meet him!'

(Matthew 25:7) 
Then all those virgins got up and trimmed their lamps, preparing them to burn brightly.

(Matthew 25:8) 
But the foolish ones said to the wise, 'Give us some of your oil, because our lamps are going out.'

(Matthew 25:9) 
The wise ones answered, saying, 'No, there probably won't be enough for us and for you. Instead, go to those who sell and buy some for yourselves.'

(Matthew 25:10) 
While they were on their way to buy, the bridegroom arrived. And those who were prepared went in with him to the wedding feast, and then the door was shut.

(Matthew 25:11) 
Finally, the other virgins also came, saying, 'Lord, Lord, open the door for us!'

(Matthew 25:12) 
But he answered, saying, 'Truly, I tell you, I do not know you.'

(Matthew 25:13) 
Therefore, stay awake and be vigilant, because you do not know the day nor the hour of My return.

(Matthew 25:14) 
For it is just like a man who, going on a journey, called his servants and entrusted his possessions to them.

(Matthew 25:15) 
To one, he gave five talents—a very large sum of money or skill. To another, he gave two, and to another, one, to each according to his own ability. And then he immediately left on his journey.

(Matthew 25:16) 
Then the one who had received five talents immediately went and traded with them, and he gained another five talents.

(Matthew 25:17) 
Similarly, the one who had received two talents also gained another two.

(Matthew 25:18) 
But the one who had received one talent went and dug a hole in the ground and hid his master's money there.

(Matthew 25:19) 
Now, after a long time, the master of those servants returned and settled accounts with them, requiring each to explain how they used what was given to them.

(Matthew 25:20) 
And the one who had received five talents came forward and brought another five talents, saying, 'Master, you entrusted five talents to me. Behold, I have gained another five on top of that amount!'

(Matthew 25:21) 
His master said to him, 'Well done, good and faithful servant! Because you have been faithful in a few things, I will set you over many things. Come, enter into the joy of your master!'

(Matthew 25:22) 
Then the one who had received two talents also came forward and said, 'Master, you entrusted two talents to me. Behold, I have gained another two on top of that amount!'

(Matthew 25:23) 
His master said to him, 'Well done, good and faithful servant! Because you have been faithful in a few things, I will set you over many things. Come, enter into the joy of your master!'

(Matthew 25:24) 
Then the one who had received one talent also came forward and said, 'Master, I knew that you are a harsh man. You reap where you have not sown, and you gather where you have not scattered any seed.'

(Matthew 25:25) 
And so, out of fear, I went away and hid your talent in the ground. Behold, here you have what is yours back again.

(Matthew 25:26) 
But his master answered and said to him, 'You wicked and lazy servant! You knew that I reap where I have not sown and gather where I have not scattered!'

(Matthew 25:27) 
Therefore, you should have entrusted my money to the bankers, and then, when I returned, I would have received what is mine with interest, a profit on my investment.

(Matthew 25:28) 
So, take the talent from him and give it to the one who has ten talents.

(Matthew 25:29) 
For to everyone who has, more will be given, and he will have an abundance. But from the one who does not have, even what he seems to have will be taken away from him.

(Matthew 25:30) 
And cast this useless servant into the outer darkness, the place of suffering and separation from God. There, there will be weeping and grinding of teeth in despair.

(Matthew 25:31) 
When the Son of Man comes in His divine majesty, and all the Angels are with Him, then He will sit upon the throne of His glory.

(Matthew 25:32) 
And all the nations will be gathered before Him, and He will separate them from one another, just as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.

(Matthew 25:33) 
And He will place the sheep on His right hand, but the goats on His left.

(Matthew 25:34) 
Then the King will say to those on His right hand, 'Come, you who are blessed by My Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for you from the very foundation of the world.'

(Matthew 25:35) 
For I was hungry, and you gave Me food to eat. I was thirsty, and you gave Me drink. I was a stranger, a foreigner in your land, and you welcomed Me into your home.

(Matthew 25:36) 
I was naked, and you clothed Me. I was sick, and you visited Me. I was in prison, and you came to Me.

(Matthew 25:37) 
Then the righteous will answer Him, saying, 'Lord, when did we see You hungry and feed You, or thirsty and give You drink?'

(Matthew 25:38) 
Or when did we see You a stranger and welcome You in, or naked and clothe You?

(Matthew 25:39) 
Or when did we see You sick or in prison and come to You?

(Matthew 25:40) 
And the King will answer and say to them, 'Truly, I tell you, just as you did it for one of the least of these, My brothers and sisters in faith, you did it for Me.'

(Matthew 25:41) 
Then He will also say to those on His left, 'Depart from Me, you who are cursed, into the eternal fire which was prepared for the devil and his angels, not for you.'

(Matthew 25:42) 
For I was hungry, and you gave Me no food to eat. I was thirsty, and you gave Me no drink.

(Matthew 25:43) 
I was a stranger, a foreigner, and you did not welcome Me in. I was naked, and you did not clothe Me. I was sick and in prison, and you did not visit Me.

(Matthew 25:44) 
Then they also will answer Him, saying, 'Lord, when did we see You hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison, and fail to minister to Your needs?'

(Matthew 25:45) 
Then He will answer them, saying, 'Truly, I tell you, just as you did not do it for one of the least of these My brothers and sisters, you did not do it for Me.'

(Matthew 25:46) 
And these will go away into eternal punishment, the ultimate consequence of their choices, but the righteous will go into eternal life, the unending union with God.

(Matthew 26:26:1) 
It came to pass that when Jesus had finished all these discourses, He said to His disciples:

(Matthew 26:26:2) 
“You know that the Passover is coming in two days, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to be crucified.”

(Matthew 26:26:3) 
Then the chief priests and the elders of the people gathered in the courtyard of the high priest, who was named Caiaphas.

(Matthew 26:26:4) 
And they formed a plan to seize Jesus by cunning and kill Him.

(Matthew 26:26:5) 
However, they were saying: “Not during the festival, lest there be a riot among the people.”

(Matthew 26:26:6) 
Now, when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper,

(Matthew 26:26:7) 
a woman came to Him with an alabaster jar of very expensive ointment, and she poured it over His head as He was reclining at the table.

(Matthew 26:26:8) 
When the disciples saw this, they were indignant, saying: “Why this waste?

(Matthew 26:26:9) 
This ointment could have been sold for a large sum and given to the poor.”

(Matthew 26:26:10) 
But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said to them: “Why are you troubling this woman? For she has done a good work for me.

(Matthew 26:26:11) 
For you always have the poor with you, but you will not always have me.

(Matthew 26:26:12) 
For by pouring this ointment on my body, she has done this as preparation for my burial.

(Matthew 26:26:13) 
Amen, I say to you, wherever this Gospel is preached in the whole world, what she has done will also be spoken of in memory of her.”

(Matthew 26:26:14) 
Then one of the twelve disciples, named Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests.

(Matthew 26:26:15) 
And he said to them: “What are you willing to give me, and I will deliver Him to you?” And they weighed out and agreed to give him thirty pieces of silver.

(Matthew 26:26:16) 
And from that time on, he sought an opportunity to betray Jesus.

(Matthew 26:26:17) 
Now, on the first day of Unleavened Bread, the disciples came to Jesus, saying: “Where do you want us to prepare for you to eat the Passover meal?”

(Matthew 26:26:18) 
But Jesus said: “Go into the city to a certain man and say to him: ‘The Teacher says: My time is near; I will keep the Passover at your house with my disciples.’”

(Matthew 26:26:19) 
And the disciples did as Jesus had instructed them, and they prepared the Passover.

(Matthew 26:26:20) 
When evening came, He was reclining at table with the twelve disciples.

(Matthew 26:26:21) 
And as they were eating, He said: “Amen, I say to you, one of you will betray me.”

(Matthew 26:26:22) 
And they were exceedingly sorrowful, and each one began to say: “Surely it is not I, Lord?”

(Matthew 26:26:23) 
But He answered and said: “The one who dips his hand with me into the dish, he will betray me.”

(Matthew 26:26:24) 
“The Son of Man indeed goes, just as it is written concerning Him; but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been better for that man if he had never been born.”

(Matthew 26:26:25) 
Then Judas, who was betraying Him, responded and said: “Surely it is not I, Rabbi?” Jesus said to him: “You have said it.”

(Matthew 26:26:26) 
Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and broke it, and gave it to His disciples, and said: “Take and eat; this is my Body.”

(Matthew 26:26:27) 
And taking the chalice, He gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying: “Drink from this, all of you.”

(Matthew 26:26:28) 
“For this is my Blood of the New Covenant, which will be poured out for many unto the remission of sins.”

(Matthew 26:26:29) 
“And I say to you: I will not drink from this fruit of the vine from now on, until that day when I drink it new with you in the Kingdom of my Father.”

(Matthew 26:26:30) 
And after singing a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.

(Matthew 26:26:31) 
Then Jesus said to them: “All of you will stumble because of me this very night. For it is written: ‘I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.’”

(Matthew 26:26:32) 
“But after I have risen, I will go before you into Galilee.”

(Matthew 26:26:33) 
Peter responded and said to Him: “Even if all others stumble because of you, I will never stumble.”

(Matthew 26:26:34) 
Jesus said to him: “Amen, I say to you, that on this very night, before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times.”

(Matthew 26:26:35) 
Peter said to Him: “Even if I must die with you, I will not deny you.” And all the disciples said the same.

(Matthew 26:26:36) 
Then Jesus came with them to a country estate called Gethsemane, and He said to His disciples: “Sit here while I go over there and pray.”

(Matthew 26:26:37) 
And taking Peter and the two sons of Zebedee with Him, He began to be sorrowful and distressed.

(Matthew 26:26:38) 
Then He said to them: “My soul is sorrowful, even to the point of death. Remain here and keep watch with me.”

(Matthew 26:26:39) 
And going forward a little, He fell on His face, praying and saying: “My Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me. Yet, not as I will, but as you will.”

(Matthew 26:26:40) 
And He came to His disciples and found them sleeping, and He said to Peter: “So, could you not keep watch with me for one hour?”

(Matthew 26:26:41) 
“Keep watch and pray, so that you do not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.”

(Matthew 26:26:42) 
Again, a second time, He went away and prayed, saying: “My Father, if this cup cannot pass away unless I drink it, then your will be done.”

(Matthew 26:26:43) 
And He came again and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy.

(Matthew 26:26:44) 
And leaving them again, He went away and prayed a third time, saying the same words.

(Matthew 26:26:45) 
Then He came to His disciples and said to them: “Sleep now and take your rest. Behold, the hour has drawn near, and the Son of Man will be delivered into the hands of sinners.”

(Matthew 26:26:46) 
“Rise, let us go! Behold, he who is betraying me has drawn near.”

(Matthew 26:26:47) 
And while He was still speaking, behold, Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a large crowd with swords and clubs, sent by the chief priests and the elders of the people.

(Matthew 26:26:48) 
Now the one who was betraying Him had given them a sign, saying: “Whomever I kiss, that is He; seize Him.”

(Matthew 26:26:49) 
And immediately he came to Jesus and said: “Hail, Rabbi!” And he kissed Him.

(Matthew 26:26:50) 
Jesus said to him: “Friend, for what purpose have you come?” Then they came forward, laid hands on Jesus, and seized Him.

(Matthew 26:26:51) 
And behold, one of those who were with Jesus stretched out his hand, drew his sword, and striking the servant of the high priest, cut off his ear.

(Matthew 26:26:52) 
Then Jesus said to him: “Return your sword to its place, for all who take up the sword will perish by the sword.”

(Matthew 26:26:53) 
“Do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father, and He would immediately send me more than twelve legions of angels?”

(Matthew 26:26:54) 
“How then would the Scriptures be fulfilled, which say that it must happen in this way?”

(Matthew 26:26:55) 
At that very hour, Jesus said to the crowds: “Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs, to apprehend me? Day after day I sat teaching among you in the Temple, and you did not seize me.”

(Matthew 26:26:56) 
“But all this has happened so that the Scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled.” Then all the disciples deserted Him and fled.

(Matthew 26:26:57) 
Then those who had seized Jesus led Him to Caiaphas, the high priest, where the scribes and elders were gathered.

(Matthew 26:26:58) 
But Peter followed Him at a distance, as far as the courtyard of the high priest. And he went inside and sat with the servants to see the outcome.

(Matthew 26:26:59) 
Now the chief priests and the entire council were seeking false testimony against Jesus, so that they might put Him to death.

(Matthew 26:26:60) 
But they found none, though many false witnesses came forward. At last, however, two false witnesses came,

(Matthew 26:26:61) 
and they said: “This man said: ‘I can destroy the Temple of God and rebuild it in three days.’”

(Matthew 26:26:62) 
And the high priest stood up and said to Him: “Do you answer nothing concerning what these men testify against you?”

(Matthew 26:26:63) 
But Jesus remained silent. And the high priest said to Him: “I put you under oath by the Living God, that you tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God.”

(Matthew 26:26:64) 
Jesus said to him: “You have said it. Nevertheless, I say to you, from now on you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Power of God, and coming on the clouds of the sky.”

(Matthew 26:26:65) 
Then the high priest tore his garments, saying: “He has blasphemed! What further need do we have of witnesses? Behold, now you have heard the blasphemy.

(Matthew 26:26:66) 
What do you think?” And they answered and said: “He is guilty of death.”

(Matthew 26:26:67) 
Then they spit in His face and struck Him with their fists. Others slapped Him in the face,

(Matthew 26:26:68) 
saying: “Prophesy to us, O Christ! Who is it that struck you?”

(Matthew 26:26:69) 
Now Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard. And a servant girl came to him, saying: “You also were with Jesus the Galilean.”

(Matthew 26:26:70) 
But he denied it before everyone, saying: “I do not know what you are talking about.”

(Matthew 26:26:71) 
And when he went out to the gateway, another servant girl saw him and said to those who were there: “This man also was with Jesus of Nazareth.”

(Matthew 26:26:72) 
And again he denied it with an oath: “I do not know the man!”

(Matthew 26:26:73) 
And after a little while, those who were standing by came and said to Peter: “Certainly, you too are one of them, for your dialect and accent betray you.”

(Matthew 26:26:74) 
Then he began to curse and swear, saying that he did not know the man. And immediately the rooster crowed.

(Matthew 26:26:75) 
And Peter remembered the word of Jesus, which He had said: “Before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times.” And going outside, he wept bitterly.

(Matthew 27:1) 
When morning came, all the chief priests and the elders of the people met together to conspire against Jesus and to put Him to death.

(Matthew 27:2) 
They bound Him, led Him away, and gave Him over to Pontius Pilate, the governor.

(Matthew 27:3) 
When Judas, who betrayed Him, saw that Jesus was condemned, he regretted what he had done and returned the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and the elders,

(Matthew 27:4) 
saying, "I have sinned by betraying innocent blood." But they said, "What is that to us? You take care of it."

(Matthew 27:5) 
So Judas threw the silver into the temple, left, and went and hanged himself.

(Matthew 27:6) 
The chief priests took the silver and said, "It is not lawful to put this money into the treasury, since it is blood money."

(Matthew 27:7) 
They conferred and bought the potter's field with the money, to be used as a burial place for strangers.

(Matthew 27:8) 
Therefore, that field has been called the Field of Blood to this day.

(Matthew 27:9) 
Then what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled: "And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of the one whose worth was set by the sons of Israel,

(Matthew 27:10) 
and they gave them for the potter's field, as the Lord commanded me."

(Matthew 27:11) 
Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked Him, "Are you the King of the Jews?" Jesus said to him, "You have said it."

(Matthew 27:12) 
But when He was accused by the chief priests and the elders, He made no reply.

(Matthew 27:13) 
Then Pilate said to Him, "Do you not hear how many things they are accusing You of?"

(Matthew 27:14) 
But He did not answer him one word, so the governor was greatly amazed.

(Matthew 27:15) 
Now at the feast the governor was accustomed to release for the people one prisoner whom they wanted.

(Matthew 27:16) 
At that time they had a notorious prisoner called Barabbas.

(Matthew 27:17) 
So when they had gathered, Pilate said to them, "Whom do you want me to release for you: Barabbas, or Jesus who is called Christ?"

(Matthew 27:18) 
For he knew that they had handed Him over because of envy.

(Matthew 27:19) 
While he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent him a message, saying, "Have nothing to do with that righteous man, because I have suffered many things today in a dream because of Him."

(Matthew 27:20) 
But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowds to ask for Barabbas and to have Jesus put to death.

(Matthew 27:21) 
The governor said to them, "Which of the two do you want me to release for you?" And they said, "Barabbas."

(Matthew 27:22) 
Pilate said to them, "Then what shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ?" They all said, "Let Him be crucified."

(Matthew 27:23) 
The governor said, "Why? What evil has He done?" But they kept shouting all the more, saying, "Let Him be crucified."

(Matthew 27:24) 
When Pilate saw that he was accomplishing nothing, but rather that a riot was starting, he took water and washed his hands before the crowd, saying, "I am innocent of this Man’s blood; see to it yourselves."

(Matthew 27:25) 
And all the people answered, "His blood be on us and on our children!"

(Matthew 27:26) 
Then he released Barabbas for them; but Jesus he scourged and handed over to be crucified.

(Matthew 27:27) 
Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the Praetorium and gathered the whole cohort around Him.

(Matthew 27:28) 
And they stripped Him and put a scarlet robe on Him.

(Matthew 27:29) 
And they twisted together a crown of thorns and put it on His head, and put a reed in His right hand; and they knelt down before Him and mocked Him, saying, "Hail, King of the Jews!"

(Matthew 27:30) 
And they spat on Him, and took the reed and began to beat Him on the head.

(Matthew 27:31) 
After they had mocked Him, they took the robe off Him and put His own garments back on Him, and led Him away to crucify Him.

(Matthew 27:32) 
As they were going out, they found a man of Cyrene named Simon, and they forced him to carry His cross.

(Matthew 27:33) 
And when they came to a place called Golgotha, which means Place of a Skull,

(Matthew 27:34) 
they gave Him wine to drink mixed with gall; but after tasting it, He was unwilling to drink.

(Matthew 27:35) 
And when they had crucified Him, they divided His garments among themselves by casting lots. This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet: "They divided My garments among themselves, and for My clothing they cast lots."

(Matthew 27:36) 
And sitting down, they were guarding Him there.

(Matthew 27:37) 
And above His head they put up the charge against Him, which read, "THIS IS JESUS, THE KING OF THE JEWS."

(Matthew 27:38) 
Then two robbers were crucified with Him, one on the right and one on the left.

(Matthew 27:39) 
And those passing by were hurling abuse at Him, wagging their heads

(Matthew 27:40) 
and saying, "You who are going to destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save Yourself! If You are the Son of God, come down from the cross."

(Matthew 27:41) 
In the same way the chief priests also, along with the scribes and elders, were mocking Him and saying,

(Matthew 27:42) 
"He saved others; He cannot save Himself. He is the King of Israel; let Him now come down from the cross, and we will believe in Him."

(Matthew 27:43) 
"He trusts in God; let God rescue Him now, if He delights in Him; for He said, 'I am the Son of God.'"

(Matthew 27:44) 
The robbers who were crucified with Him were also insulting Him in the same way.

(Matthew 27:45) 
From the sixth hour until the ninth hour, darkness came over all the land.

(Matthew 27:46) 
And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, "ELI, ELI, LAMA SABACHTHANI?" that is, "MY GOD, MY GOD, WHY HAVE YOU FORSAKEN ME?"

(Matthew 27:47) 
And some of those who were standing there, when they heard it, were saying, "This man is calling for Elijah."

(Matthew 27:48) 
Immediately one of them ran, and taking a sponge, he filled it with sour wine and put it on a reed, and gave Him a drink.

(Matthew 27:49) 
But the rest said, "Let us see whether Elijah will come to save Him."

(Matthew 27:50) 
And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice, and yielded up His spirit.

(Matthew 27:51) 
And behold, the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom, and the earth shook; and the rocks were split,

(Matthew 27:52) 
and the tombs were opened; and many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised;

(Matthew 27:53) 
and coming out of the tombs after His resurrection they entered the holy city and appeared to many.

(Matthew 27:54) 
Now the centurion, and those who were with him keeping watch over Jesus, when they saw the earthquake and the things that were happening, became very frightened and said, "Truly this was the Son of God!"

(Matthew 27:55) 
Many women were there, looking on from a distance, who had followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering to Him.

(Matthew 27:56) 
Among them were Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.

(Matthew 27:57) 
When it was evening, there came a rich man from Arimathea, named Joseph, who himself had also become a disciple of Jesus.

(Matthew 27:58) 
This man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate ordered it to be given to him.

(Matthew 27:59) 
And Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth,

(Matthew 27:60) 
and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewn out in the rock; and he rolled a large stone against the entrance of the tomb and went away.

(Matthew 27:61) 
And Mary Magdalene was there, and the other Mary, sitting opposite the tomb.

(Matthew 27:62) 
Now on the next day, which is the day after the Preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered together with Pilate,

(Matthew 27:63) 
and said, "Sir, we remember that when He was still alive that deceiver said, 'After three days I am to rise again.'

(Matthew 27:64) 
"So give orders for the tomb to be made secure until the third day, otherwise His disciples may come and steal Him away and say to the people, 'He has risen from the dead,' and the last deception will be worse than the first."

(Matthew 27:65) 
Pilate said to them, "You have a guard; go, make it as secure as you know how."

(Matthew 27:66) 
And they went and made the tomb secure, and sealed the stone, along with the guard.

(Matthew 28:1) 
Late on the Sabbath, as the first day of the week began to dawn, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to see the tomb.

(Matthew 28:2) 
Suddenly, there was a great earthquake, because an angel of the Lord descended from the universe. He approached the tomb, rolled back the stone, and sat upon it.

(Matthew 28:3) 
His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing was as white as snow.

(Matthew 28:4) 
Because the guards were so terrified of him, they were terrified and became like dead men.

(Matthew 28:5) 
The angel spoke to the women, saying, “Do not be afraid. I know that you are looking for Jesus, who was crucified.

(Matthew 28:6) 
He isn’t here. He has risen, just as He said. Come and see the place where the Lord was lying.

(Matthew 28:7) 
Then go quickly, and tell His disciples that He has risen. He is going ahead of you to Galilee. You will see Him there. Behold, I have told you.”

(Matthew 28:8) 
So the women left the tomb quickly, with fear and great joy. They ran to tell His disciples.

(Matthew 28:9) 
Suddenly, Jesus met them, saying, “Greetings!” They approached, held onto His feet, and worshipped Him.

(Matthew 28:10) 
Then Jesus said to them, “Do not be afraid. Go and tell My brothers to go to Galilee, and they will see Me there.”

(Matthew 28:11) 
While they were on their way, some of the guard came into the city and reported to the chief priests everything that had happened.

(Matthew 28:12) 
When they had assembled with the elders, they took counsel and gave a large sum of money to the soldiers,

(Matthew 28:13) 
saying, “Tell everyone, ‘His disciples came by night and stole Him away while we were sleeping.’

(Matthew 28:14) 
And if the governor hears about this, we will persuade him and keep you out of trouble.”

(Matthew 28:15) 
So the soldiers took the money and did as they were instructed. And this story has been spread among the Jews to this day.

(Matthew 28:16) 
The eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had instructed them to go.

(Matthew 28:17) 
And when they saw Him, they worshipped Him, though some still doubted.

(Matthew 28:18) 
Jesus came near and spoke to them, saying, “All power in the universe and on earth has been given to Me.

(Matthew 28:19) 
Therefore, go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit,

(Matthew 28:20) 
teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And remember, I am with you always, even until the end of the age.”