(Mark 1:1) 
The beginning of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.

(Mark 1:2) 
Just as it is written in Isaiah the prophet: “Behold, I send my angel before your face, who will prepare your way before you.”

(Mark 1:3) 
The voice of one crying in the desert: “Prepare the way of the Lord, make straight his paths.”

(Mark 1:4) 
John was in the desert, baptizing and preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins.

(Mark 1:5) 
And all the land of Judea and all the people of Jerusalem went out to him, and were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.

(Mark 1:6) 
And John was clothed in camel’s hair and wore a leather belt around his waist, and he ate locusts and wild honey.

(Mark 1:7) 
And he preached, saying: “There comes after me the One who is mightier than I, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and loosen.”

(Mark 1:8) 
I have baptized you in water, but he will baptize you in the Holy Spirit.”

(Mark 1:9) 
And it came to pass in those days that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan.

(Mark 1:10) 
And immediately, coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens being torn open, and the Spirit descending upon him like a dove.

(Mark 1:11) 
And there came a voice from the heavens: “You are my beloved Son; in you I am well pleased.”

(Mark 1:12) 
And immediately the Spirit drove him out into the desert.

(Mark 1:13) 
And he was in the desert forty days, being tempted by Satan; and he was with the beasts, and the angels ministered to him.

(Mark 1:14) 
And after John was delivered up, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the Gospel of the kingdom of God,

(Mark 1:15) 
and saying, “The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand; repent and believe in the Gospel.”

(Mark 1:16) 
And passing along by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew his brother casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen.

(Mark 1:17) 
And Jesus said to them: “Come after me, and I will make you become fishers of men.”

(Mark 1:18) 
And immediately they left their nets and followed him.

(Mark 1:19) 
And going on a little further, he saw James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, who were also in the boat mending the nets.

(Mark 1:20) 
And immediately he called them. And they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired men and followed him.

(Mark 1:21) 
And they went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath, he entered the synagogue and began to teach.

(Mark 1:22) 
And they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes.

(Mark 1:23) 
And immediately there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit; and he cried out,

(Mark 1:24) 
saying: “What have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God.”

(Mark 1:25) 
And Jesus rebuked him, saying: “Be quiet, and come out of him.”

(Mark 1:26) 
And the unclean spirit, convulsing him and crying with a loud voice, came out of him.

(Mark 1:27) 
And they were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying: “What is this? A new teaching with authority! For he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him.”

(Mark 1:28) 
And at once his fame spread everywhere throughout all the region of Galilee.

(Mark 1:29) 
And immediately, when they came out of the synagogue, they went into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.

(Mark 1:30) 
Now Simon’s mother-in-law lay ill with a fever, and immediately they told him about her.

(Mark 1:31) 
And he came and lifted her up, taking her by the hand; and immediately the fever left her, and she served them.

(Mark 1:32) 
And when evening had come, after the sun went down, they brought to him all who were sick or possessed with demons.

(Mark 1:33) 
And the whole city was gathered together at the door.

(Mark 1:34) 
And he healed many who were sick with various diseases, and cast out many demons; and he would not allow the demons to speak, because they knew him.

(Mark 1:35) 
And in the morning, rising up a great while before day, he went out and went to a lonely place, and there he prayed.

(Mark 1:36) 
And Simon and those who were with him followed him.

(Mark 1:37) 
And when they found him, they said to him: “Everyone is looking for you.”

(Mark 1:38) 
And he said to them: “Let us go on to the next towns, that I may preach there also, for that is why I came out.”

(Mark 1:39) 
And he went throughout all Galilee, preaching in their synagogues and casting out demons.

(Mark 1:40) 
And a leper came to him, beseeching him, and kneeling said to him: “If you will, you can make me clean.”

(Mark 1:41) 
And Jesus, moved with pity, stretched out his hand and touched him and said to him, “I will; be clean.”

(Mark 1:42) 
And immediately the leprosy left him, and he was made clean.

(Mark 1:43) 
And immediately he sternly warned him and sent him away,

(Mark 1:44) 
and said to him: “See that you say nothing to anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing what Moses commanded, for a proof to them.”

(Mark 1:45) 
But he went out and began to proclaim it freely and to spread the word, so that Jesus could no longer openly enter a town, but was out in desolate places, and people were coming to him from every quarter.

(Mark 2:1) 
Jesus returned to Capernaum a few days later.

(Mark 2:2) 
The news spread that he was at home.

(Mark 2:3) 
A crowd gathered, so many that there was no room left, not even near the door. Jesus began to preach the word of God to them.

(Mark 2:4) 
Some men arrived, carrying a paralytic. The men carried him.

(Mark 2:5) 
Because of the crowd, they couldn't bring him to Jesus. So, they uncovered the roof above where Jesus was and made an opening, then they lowered the man on his mat.

(Mark 2:6) 
Seeing their faith, Jesus said to the paralytic, “Son, your sins are forgiven.”

(Mark 2:7) 
Some scribes were sitting there, and they began to think to themselves:

(Mark 2:8) 
“Why does this man speak like this? He's blaspheming! Who can forgive sins except God alone?”

(Mark 2:9) 
Jesus, immediately aware in his spirit that they were thinking this, said to them, “Why are you thinking these things in your hearts?”

(Mark 2:10) 
“Which is easier: to tell the paralytic, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Get up, pick up your mat, and walk’?”

(Mark 2:11) 
“But so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins”—He said to the paralytic,

(Mark 2:12) 
“I tell you, get up, pick up your mat, and go home.”

(Mark 2:13) 
He got up immediately, took his mat, and walked out in front of everyone. They were all amazed and praised God, saying, “We have never seen anything like this!”

(Mark 2:14) 
Jesus went out again to the sea, and the whole crowd came to him, and he began to teach them.

(Mark 2:15) 
As he was walking along, he saw Levi, son of Alphaeus, sitting at the tax booth, and he said to him, “Follow me.” And he got up and followed him.

(Mark 2:16) 
While Jesus was having dinner at Levi’s house, many tax collectors and sinners were eating with him and his disciples, for there were many who followed him.

(Mark 2:17) 
When the scribes and the Pharisees saw that he was eating with sinners and tax collectors, they said to his disciples, “Why does he eat with tax collectors and sinners?”

(Mark 2:18) 
Hearing this, Jesus said to them, “Those who are well do not need a physician, but the sick do. I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners.”

(Mark 2:19) 
John’s disciples and the Pharisees were fasting. They came to Jesus and asked, “Why do John’s disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but your disciples don’t fast?”

(Mark 2:20) 
Jesus said to them, “Can the wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them?

(Mark 2:21) 
As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast.

(Mark 2:22) 
But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and on that day they will fast.

(Mark 2:23) 
“No one sews a patch of unshrunk cloth on an old garment. Otherwise, the new piece tears away from the old, and the tear becomes worse.

(Mark 2:24) 
And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. Otherwise, the wine will burst the skins, and both the wine and the skins will be ruined. Instead, new wine is to be put into new wineskins.”

(Mark 2:25) 
One Sabbath, as Jesus was walking through the grainfields, his disciples began to pick some heads of grain.

(Mark 2:26) 
The Pharisees said to him, “Look, why are they doing what is unlawful on the Sabbath?”

(Mark 2:27) 
He answered them, “Have you never read what David did when he and his companions were hungry and in need?

(Mark 2:28) 
He entered the house of God in the time of Abiathar the high priest and ate the consecrated bread, which is lawful only for the priests to eat, and he also gave some to his companions.”

(Mark 3:1) 
Again, He entered the synagogue. And there was a man there whose hand was shriveled.

(Mark 3:2) 
And they watched Him to see if He would heal on the Sabbath so that they could accuse Him.

(Mark 3:3) 
And He said to the man with the shriveled hand, “Stand up in the middle.”

(Mark 3:4) 
And He said to them, “Is it lawful to do good on the Sabbath, or to do evil? To save a life, or to kill?” But they were silent.

(Mark 3:5) 
And looking around at them with anger, grieved by the hardness of their hearts, He said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” And he stretched it out; and his hand was restored.

(Mark 3:6) 
And immediately the Pharisees, along with the Herodians, went out and began to conspire against Him, as to how they might destroy Him.

(Mark 3:7) 
And Jesus withdrew with His disciples to the sea. And a large crowd from Galilee and Judea followed Him,

(Mark 3:8) 
and from Jerusalem, and from Idumea, and beyond the Jordan. And those near Tyre and Sidon, a great crowd, hearing all that He was doing, came to Him.

(Mark 3:9) 
And He told His disciples that a small boat should be ready for Him because of the crowd, lest they crush Him.

(Mark 3:10) 
For He healed many, so that all those who had afflictions were pressing Him in order to touch Him.

(Mark 3:11) 
And whenever the unclean spirits saw Him, they would fall down before Him and cry out, saying, “You are the Son of God!”

(Mark 3:12) 
And He sternly warned them not to make Him known.

(Mark 3:13) 
And going up on the mountain, He called to Him those whom He Himself willed, and they came to Him.

(Mark 3:14) 
And He appointed twelve, that they might be with Him and that He might send them out to preach,

(Mark 3:15) 
and have authority to cast out demons.

(Mark 3:16) 
And He appointed Simon, to whom He gave the name Peter;

(Mark 3:17) 
and James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James, to whom He gave the name Boanerges, which is, Sons of Thunder;

(Mark 3:18) 
and Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Zealot,

(Mark 3:19) 
and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed Him.

(Mark 3:20) 
And He went home. And the crowd gathered again, so that they could not even eat a meal.

(Mark 3:21) 
And when His family heard it, they went out to seize Him, for they were saying, “He is out of His mind.”

(Mark 3:22) 
And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem were saying, “He has Beelzebul,” and, “By the prince of demons He casts out demons.”

(Mark 3:23) 
And He called them to Himself and began to speak to them in parables: “How can Satan cast out Satan?

(Mark 3:24) 
And if a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand.

(Mark 3:25) 
And if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand.

(Mark 3:26) 
And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but has an end.

(Mark 3:27) 
But no one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man, and then he will plunder his house.

(Mark 3:28) 
“Truly, I say to you, all sins will be forgiven the sons of men, and whatever blasphemies they utter,

(Mark 3:29) 
but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin.”

(Mark 3:30) 
For they were saying, “He has an unclean spirit.”

(Mark 3:31) 
And His mother and His brothers came, and standing outside, they sent to Him, calling Him.

(Mark 3:32) 
And a crowd was sitting around Him, and they said to Him, “Your mother and Your brothers are outside, seeking You.”

(Mark 3:33) 
And answering them, He said, “Who is My mother, and who are My brothers?”

(Mark 3:34) 
And looking around at those who sat around Him, He said, “Here are My mother and My brothers!

(Mark 3:35) 
For whoever does the will of God, he is My brother and sister and mother.”

(Mark 4:1) 
And again, He began to teach by the sea. And a great crowd gathered around Him, so that He entered a boat and sat on the sea. And all the crowd was on the land near the sea.

(Mark 4:2) 
And He taught them many things in parables, and said to them in His teaching:

(Mark 4:3) 
Listen: behold, a sower went out to sow.

(Mark 4:4) 
And as he sowed, some seed fell by the wayside, and the birds of the sky came and ate it up.

(Mark 4:5) 
And some fell upon stony ground where it did not have much earth, and immediately it sprang up because it had no depth of earth.

(Mark 4:6) 
And when the sun rose, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it withered.

(Mark 4:7) 
And some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprang up and choked it, and it yielded no fruit.

(Mark 4:8) 
And some fell on good ground and yielded fruit that sprang up and increased, and produced, some thirtyfold, some sixtyfold, and some a hundredfold.

(Mark 4:9) 
And He said, “He who has ears to hear, let him hear.”

(Mark 4:10) 
And when He was alone, those around Him with the twelve asked Him about the parable.

(Mark 4:11) 
And He said to them, “To you has been given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God, but to those who are outside, all things are done in parables,

(Mark 4:12) 
so that seeing they may see and not perceive, and hearing they may hear and not understand, lest they should turn and their sins be forgiven them.”

(Mark 4:13) 
And He said to them, “Do you not understand this parable? How then will you understand all the parables?

(Mark 4:14) 
The sower sows the word.

(Mark 4:15) 
And these are the ones by the wayside, where the word is sown. And immediately Satan comes and takes away the word that was sown in their hearts.

(Mark 4:16) 
And these are the ones sown on stony ground: who, when they have heard the word, immediately receive it with joy.

(Mark 4:17) 
And they have no root in themselves, but are temporary. Afterward, when tribulation or persecution arises because of the word, immediately they are scandalized.

(Mark 4:18) 
And these are the ones sown among thorns: they are those who hear the word,

(Mark 4:19) 
and the cares of the world, the deceitfulness of riches, and the desires for other things enter in and choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful.

(Mark 4:20) 
And those are the ones sown on good ground: who hear the word and receive it, and bear fruit, some thirtyfold, some sixtyfold, and some a hundredfold.”

(Mark 4:21) 
And He said to them, “Does a lamp come to be put under a basket, or under a bed? Is it not to be put on a lampstand?

(Mark 4:22) 
For there is nothing hidden that will not be revealed, nor was anything made secret, but that it should come to light.

(Mark 4:23) 
If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.”

(Mark 4:24) 
And He said to them, “Take heed what you hear. With whatever measure you measure, it will be measured to you; and to you who hear, more will be added.

(Mark 4:25) 
For whoever has, to him more will be given; and whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken away from him.”

(Mark 4:26) 
And He said, “The kingdom of God is like a man who casts seed on the earth,

(Mark 4:27) 
and sleeps and rises night and day, and the seed sprouts and grows, though he does not know how.

(Mark 4:28) 
For the earth bears fruit of itself: first the blade, then the head, and then the full grain in the head.

(Mark 4:29) 
But when the grain is ripe, immediately he puts in the sickle, because the harvest has come.”

(Mark 4:30) 
And He said, “To what shall we compare the kingdom of God? Or with what parable will we present it?

(Mark 4:31) 
It is like a mustard seed which, when sown on the ground, is the smallest of all the seeds on earth;

(Mark 4:32) 
but when it is sown, it grows up and becomes greater than all herbs, and shoots out large branches, so that the birds of the sky can dwell under its shade.”

(Mark 4:33) 
And with many such parables, He spoke the word to them as they were able to hear it.

(Mark 4:34) 
But without a parable, He did not speak to them. But privately to His own disciples, He explained everything.

(Mark 4:35) 
And on that day, when evening had come, He said to them, “Let us pass over to the other side.”

(Mark 4:36) 
And leaving the crowd, they took Him along in the boat, and there were also other boats with Him.

(Mark 4:37) 
And a great windstorm arose, and the waves were breaking into the boat, so that it was already filling.

(Mark 4:38) 
But He was in the stern, asleep on a cushion. And they awoke Him and said to Him, “Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing?”

(Mark 4:39) 
Then He arose and rebuked the wind, and said to the sea, “Peace! Be still!” And the wind ceased and there was a great calm.

(Mark 4:40) 
And He said to them, “Why are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith?”

(Mark 4:41) 
And they feared exceedingly, and said to one another, “Who can this be, that even the wind and the sea obey Him?”

(Mark 5:1) 
They went to the sea in the territory of the Gerasenes. As soon as He disembarked from the boat, a man possessed by an evil spirit met Him there from the tombs,

(Mark 5:2) 
The man lived in the tombs. No one could bind him anymore, not even with chains.

(Mark 5:3) 
Often he had been bound with shackles and chains. But he would tear apart the chains and break the shackles, and no one could control him.

(Mark 5:4) 
Day and night among the tombs and in the mountains, he was constantly shouting and cutting himself with stones.

(Mark 5:5) 
Seeing Jesus from afar, he ran to Him and bowed down,

(Mark 5:6) 
shouting in a loud voice, “What have You to do with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I implore You by God, do not torment me.”

(Mark 5:7) 
Jesus was already saying to him, “Come out, unclean spirit, from this man.”

(Mark 5:8) 
Jesus asked him, “What is your name?” He replied, “My name is Legion, for we are many.”

(Mark 5:9) 
And he begged Jesus again and again not to send them out of the area.

(Mark 5:10) 
A large herd of swine was feeding there on the hillside.

(Mark 5:11) 
And the spirits begged Him, saying, “Send us into the swine so that we may enter them.”

(Mark 5:12) 
Jesus gave them permission, and the unclean spirits came out and entered the swine. The herd, about two thousand in number, rushed down the steep bank into the sea and were drowned there.

(Mark 5:13) 
Those who were tending them ran off and reported it in the city and the surrounding countryside. People went out to see what had happened.

(Mark 5:14) 
They came to Jesus and saw the man who had been possessed by the legion of demons sitting there, clothed and in his right mind, and they were afraid.

(Mark 5:15) 
Those who had seen what had happened told them the whole story about the demon-possessed man and the swine.

(Mark 5:16) 
Then they began to beg Jesus to leave their region.

(Mark 5:17) 
As Jesus was getting into the boat, the man who had been demon-possessed begged Him to go with him.

(Mark 5:18) 
Jesus did not let him, but said to him, “Go home to your family and tell them how much the Lord has done for you, and how He has had mercy on you.”

(Mark 5:19) 
So the man went away and began to proclaim in the Decapolis how much Jesus had done for him, and all those who heard it were amazed.

(Mark 5:20) 
When Jesus had crossed over again in the boat to the other side, a large crowd gathered around Him, and He was by the sea.

(Mark 5:21) 
Then one of the synagogue officials, named Jairus, came to Jesus. Seeing Him, he fell at His feet,

(Mark 5:22) 
and begged Him repeatedly, saying, “My little daughter is at the point of death. Please come and put Your hands on her so that she may be healed and live.”

(Mark 5:23) 
So Jesus went with him. A large crowd followed and pressed around Him.

(Mark 5:24) 
And a woman was there who had been suffering from a hemorrhage for twelve years.

(Mark 5:25) 
She had heard about Jesus and came up behind Him in the crowd and touched His cloak,

(Mark 5:26) 
because she said, “If I just touch His clothes, I will be healed.”

(Mark 5:27) 
Immediately her flow of blood dried up, and she realized in her body that she was healed of her affliction.

(Mark 5:28) 
At once Jesus realized that power had gone out from Him. He turned around in the crowd and said, “Who touched My clothes?”

(Mark 5:29) 
His disciples said to Him, “You see the crowd pressing around You, and yet You ask, ‘Who touched Me?’

(Mark 5:30) 
But Jesus kept looking around to see who had done it.

(Mark 5:31) 
The woman, knowing what had happened to her, came with fear and trembling, and fell down before Him and told Him the whole truth.

(Mark 5:32) 
He said to her, “Daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace and be free from your affliction.”

(Mark 5:33) 
While He was still speaking, some people came from the synagogue official’s house and said, “Your daughter is dead. Why bother the Teacher any more?”

(Mark 5:34) 
But Jesus overheard what they were saying and said to the synagogue official, “Do not be afraid; just believe.”

(Mark 5:35) 
He allowed no one to follow Him except Peter, James, and John the brother of James.

(Mark 5:36) 
They came to the home of the synagogue official, and Jesus saw a commotion, with people weeping and wailing loudly.

(Mark 5:37) 
When He entered, He said to them, “Why are you making a commotion and weeping? The child is not dead but sleeping.”

(Mark 5:38) 
And they laughed at Him. But He put them all out and took the child’s father and mother and those who were with Him and went in where the child was.

(Mark 5:39) 
Taking her by the hand, He said to her, “Talitha koum,” which means, “Little girl, I say to you, get up!”

(Mark 5:40) 
Immediately the girl got up and began to walk around (for she was twelve years old). And the people were utterly amazed.

(Mark 5:41) 
He gave them strict orders not to let anyone know about this, and told them to give her something to eat.

(Mark 6:1) 
Jesus left that place and returned to His home country. His disciples followed Him.

(Mark 6:2) 
When the Sabbath arrived, He began teaching in the synagogue. Many people heard Him and were astonished by His teaching. They asked, “Where did He get these things? What is this wisdom given to Him? And what are these mighty works that are done by His hands?”

(Mark 6:3) 
“Isn't this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and the brother of James, and Joseph, and Judas, and Simon? Aren’t His sisters here with us?” And they took offense at Him.

(Mark 6:4) 
Jesus said to them, “A prophet is not without honor, except in his own country, among his own relatives, and in his own house.”

(Mark 6:5) 
And He could do no mighty works there, except that He laid His hands on a few sick people and healed them.

(Mark 6:6) 
And He marveled at their unbelief. Then He went around teaching in the surrounding villages.

(Mark 6:7) 
He called the Twelve to Him and began to send them out two by two, giving them authority over unclean spirits.

(Mark 6:8) 
He instructed them to take nothing for their journey except a staff: no bag, no bread, and no money in their belts.

(Mark 6:9) 
They were to wear sandals and not to put on two tunics.

(Mark 6:10) 
He said to them, “Wherever you enter a house, stay there until you leave that place.

(Mark 6:11) 
And if any place will not welcome you or listen to you, shake off the dust that is on your feet as a testimony against them when you leave. Truly, I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah on the day of judgment than for that town.”

(Mark 6:12) 
So they went out and preached that people should repent.

(Mark 6:13) 
And they cast out many demons, and they anointed many who were sick with oil, and healed them.

(Mark 6:14) 
King Herod heard about Him, for His name had become well-known. He was saying, “John the Baptist has been raised from the dead, and that is why these powers are at work in Him.”

(Mark 6:15) 
Others said, “He is Elijah.” And others said, “He is a prophet, like one of the prophets.”

(Mark 6:16) 
But when Herod heard this, he said, “John, whom I beheaded, has been raised.”

(Mark 6:17) 
For Herod himself had sent and arrested John, and had bound him in prison on account of Herodias, the wife of his brother Philip, because he had married her.

(Mark 6:18) 
For John had been saying to Herod, “It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife.”

(Mark 6:19) 
And Herodias was angry with him and wanted to kill him, but she could not.

(Mark 6:20) 
For Herod feared John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and he kept him safe. When he heard him, he was greatly perplexed, and yet he liked to listen to him.

(Mark 6:21) 
But when a convenient time came, Herod gave a banquet for his nobles and military commanders and the leading men of Galilee.

(Mark 6:22) 
When the daughter of Herodias came in and danced, she pleased Herod and those who were with him. And the king said to the girl, “Ask me for whatever you wish, and I will give it to you.”

(Mark 6:23) 
And he swore an oath to her, “Whatever you ask me, I will give you, even up to half of my kingdom.”

(Mark 6:24) 
She went out and said to her mother, “What shall I ask for?” And she said, “The head of John the Baptist.”

(Mark 6:25) 
And immediately she came in a hurry to the king and asked, saying, “I want you to give me the head of John the Baptist on a platter right away.”

(Mark 6:26) 
And the king was exceedingly sorry, but because of his oath and because of those who were with him, he did not want to break his word to her.

(Mark 6:27) 
And immediately the king sent an executioner and commanded that John’s head be brought. So he went and beheaded him in the prison,

(Mark 6:28) 
and brought his head on a platter and gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother.

(Mark 6:29) 
When his disciples heard about it, they came and took his body and laid it in a tomb.

(Mark 6:30) 
The apostles returned to Jesus and reported to Him all that they had done and taught.

(Mark 6:31) 
He said to them, “Come away by yourselves to a desolate place and rest a while.” For many were coming and going, and they had no leisure even to eat.

(Mark 6:32) 
And they went away in the boat to a desolate place by themselves.

(Mark 6:33) 
Now many saw them going and recognized them, and they ran there on foot from all the towns and arrived ahead of them.

(Mark 6:34) 
When He went ashore, He saw a large crowd and had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. And He began to teach them many things.

(Mark 6:35) 
And when it was already late, His disciples came to Him and said, “This is a desolate place, and it is already late.

(Mark 6:36) 
Send them away so that they may go into the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves something to eat, for they have nothing to eat.”

(Mark 6:37) 
But He answered them, “You give them something to eat.” And they said to Him, “Shall we go and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread and give them something to eat?”

(Mark 6:38) 
And He said to them, “How many loaves do you have? Go and see.” And when they had found out, they said, “Five, and two fish.”

(Mark 6:39) 
Then He commanded them all to sit down in groups on the green grass.

(Mark 6:40) 
They reclined in companies of hundreds and of fifties.

(Mark 6:41) 
And taking the five loaves and the two fish, He looked up to the universe and blessed and broke the loaves. Then He gave them to the disciples to set before the people. And He divided the two fish among them all.

(Mark 6:42) 
And they all ate and were satisfied.

(Mark 6:43) 
And they took up twelve baskets full of broken pieces and of the fish.

(Mark 6:44) 
Those who ate the loaves were about five thousand men.

(Mark 6:45) 
Immediately He made His disciples get into the boat and go ahead of Him to Bethsaida, while He sent the crowd away.

(Mark 6:46) 
And after He had taken leave of them, He went up on the mountain to pray.

(Mark 6:47) 
When evening came, the boat was out on the sea, and He was alone on the land.

(Mark 6:48) 
And seeing that they were straining at the oars, for the wind was against them, He came to them in the fourth watch of the night, walking on the sea. He intended to pass by them.

(Mark 6:49) 
But when they saw Him walking on the sea, they thought it was a ghost, and they cried out.

(Mark 6:50) 
For they all saw Him and were terrified. But immediately He spoke with them and said to them, “Take heart; it is I. Do not be afraid.”

(Mark 6:51) 
Then He got into the boat with them, and the wind ceased. And they were utterly astounded,

(Mark 6:52) 
because they had not understood about the loaves, but their hearts were hardened.

(Mark 6:53) 
When they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesaret and moored to the shore.

(Mark 6:54) 
And when they got out of the boat, immediately the people recognized Him

(Mark 6:55) 
and ran about the whole region and began to bring the sick people on their beds to where they heard He was.

(Mark 6:56) 
And wherever He went, into villages or cities or farms, they laid the sick in the marketplaces and begged Him that they might touch even the fringe of His garment. And as many as touched Him were made well.

(Mark 7:1) 
Then the Pharisees and some scribes came together to see Him, having traveled from Jerusalem.

(Mark 7:2) 
And when they saw some of His disciples eating food with hands that were not washed—that is, common hands—they criticized them.

(Mark 7:3) 
The Pharisees and all the Jews don't eat unless they wash their hands often, holding fast to the traditions of their elders:

(Mark 7:4) 
And after coming from the marketplace, they don't eat unless they wash first. There are many other traditions which they have received to keep, such as washing cups, jugs, bronze vessels, and beds.

(Mark 7:5) 
Then the Pharisees and scribes questioned Him: “Why do Your disciples not live according to the traditions of the elders, but eat food with common hands?”

(Mark 7:6) 
He responded by saying to them: “Isaiah prophesied correctly about you hypocrites, as it is written: ‘This people honors Me with their lips, but their heart is far from Me.’

(Mark 7:7) 
‘In vain they worship Me, teaching doctrines and precepts of men.’

(Mark 7:8) 
‘For, abandoning the commandment of God, you hold to the tradition of men: washing of jugs and cups, and many other similar things you do.’

(Mark 7:9) 
And He said to them: “You do very well at making the commandment of God invalid, so that you can establish your own tradition.”

(Mark 7:10) 
For Moses said: ‘Honor your father and your mother,’ and ‘Whoever curses father or mother must surely die.’

(Mark 7:11) 
But you say: ‘If a man says to his father or mother, “Corban” (which means, a gift), whatever profit you might have received from me,’

(Mark 7:12) 
you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or his mother,

(Mark 7:13) 
making the word of God invalid through your tradition, which you have handed down. And you do many things similar to these.”

(Mark 7:14) 
And, having called the crowd again, He said to them: “Listen to Me, all of you, and understand.

(Mark 7:15) 
There is nothing outside a man which, entering into him, can defile him; but the things which come out of the man, these are what defile the man.

(Mark 7:16) 
If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.”

(Mark 7:17) 
And when He entered into the house away from the crowd, His disciples questioned Him about the parable.

(Mark 7:18) 
And He said to them: “Are you also as unintelligent? Don’t you understand that everything that enters a man from outside cannot defile him,

(Mark 7:19) 
because it doesn’t enter his heart, but his stomach, and it goes out into the latrine, eliminating all the food?”

(Mark 7:20) 
But He said, “What comes out of a man, that defiles the man.

(Mark 7:21) 
For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, acts of sexual immorality, thefts, murders,

(Mark 7:22) 
adulteries, acts of greed, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, arrogance, and foolishness.

(Mark 7:23) 
All these evils proceed from within and defile the man.”

(Mark 7:24) 
Then, getting up, He went away to the area of Tyre and Sidon. And, entering a house, He didn’t want anyone to know, and yet He couldn’t remain hidden.

(Mark 7:25) 
For a woman whose daughter had an unclean spirit, immediately after hearing about Him, came and fell at His feet.

(Mark 7:26) 
The woman was a Gentile, of Syrophoenician origin. And she begged Him to cast the demon out of her daughter.

(Mark 7:27) 
He said to her, “Let the children be satisfied first, for it is not right to take the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs.”

(Mark 7:28) 
But she responded, “Yes, Lord; but even the dogs under the table eat from the crumbs of the children.”

(Mark 7:29) 
And He said to her: “Because of this word, go; the demon has gone out of your daughter.”

(Mark 7:30) 
And going home, she found the girl lying on the bed, and the demon had gone out.

(Mark 7:31) 
Then, departing again from the territory of Tyre, He came through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee, through the midst of the territory of the Decapolis.

(Mark 7:32) 
And they brought to Him a man who was deaf and mute. And they begged Him to place His hand on him.

(Mark 7:33) 
And, taking him away from the crowd privately, He put His fingers into his ears, and spitting, He touched his tongue.

(Mark 7:34) 
Then, looking up to the sky, He groaned and said to him, “Ephphatha,” which means, “Be opened.”

(Mark 7:35) 
And immediately his ears were opened, and the bond of his tongue was loosened, and he was speaking correctly.

(Mark 7:36) 
And He commanded them not to tell anyone. But as much as He commanded them, so much the more did they proclaim it:

(Mark 7:37) 
and they were exceedingly astonished, saying, “He has done all things well. He even makes the deaf to hear and the mute to speak!”

(Mark 8:1) 
During those days, after a great crowd had gathered but didn't have anything to eat, Jesus summoned the disciples and told them:

(Mark 8:2) 
“I have pity on the crowd because they’ve been with me for three days, and they don’t have anything to eat.

(Mark 8:3) 
If I send them away hungry to their homes, they will weaken on the way, because some of them have come from far away.”

(Mark 8:4) 
His disciples responded to him: “How can someone possibly feed them with bread here in the desert?”

(Mark 8:5) 
Jesus then asked them: “How many loaves of bread do you have?” They replied: “Seven.”

(Mark 8:6) 
He ordered the crowd to recline on the ground. Then, taking the seven loaves, He gave thanks, broke them, and gave them to His disciples to set before the crowd. They did so.

(Mark 8:7) 
They also had a few small fish. Jesus blessed them and ordered that they be put before the crowd.

(Mark 8:8) 
Everyone ate and was satisfied. They collected what was left of the fragments—seven baskets full.

(Mark 8:9) 
There were about four thousand people eating, and Jesus sent them away.

(Mark 8:10) 
Immediately, He got into a boat with His disciples and went to the region of Dalmanutha.

(Mark 8:11) 
Then the Pharisees came out and began to debate with Him, asking for a sign from the sky, testing Him.

(Mark 8:12) 
He sighed deeply in His spirit, and said, “Why does this generation seek a sign? Truly I say to you, no sign will be given to this generation.”

(Mark 8:13) 
He left them, got back into the boat, and went to the other side of the lake.

(Mark 8:14) 
They had forgotten to bring bread. They had only one loaf with them in the boat.

(Mark 8:15) 
Jesus then commanded them, saying: “Watch out and beware of the yeast of the Pharisees and the yeast of Herod.”

(Mark 8:16) 
They reasoned among themselves, saying: “It’s because we have no bread.”

(Mark 8:17) 
Jesus, aware of this, said to them: “Why are you discussing that you have no bread? Don’t you yet understand or comprehend? Do you still have hardened hearts?

(Mark 8:18) 
Do you have eyes but fail to see? Do you have ears but fail to hear? Don’t you remember?

(Mark 8:19) 
When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets of fragments did you gather?” They said to Him: “Twelve.”

(Mark 8:20) 
“And when I broke the seven loaves for the four thousand, how many baskets of fragments did you gather?” They said to Him: “Seven.”

(Mark 8:21) 
Then He said to them: “How is it that you still do not understand?”

(Mark 8:22) 
They came to Bethsaida. They brought a blind man to Jesus, and they begged Him to touch him.

(Mark 8:23) 
Taking the blind man by the hand, He led him outside the village. Then, spitting on his eyes and laying His hands on him, He asked him if he saw anything.

(Mark 8:24) 
The man looked up and said, “I see people, but they look like trees, walking around.”

(Mark 8:25) 
Then Jesus laid His hands on his eyes again, and he saw clearly, and his sight was restored. He could then see everything perfectly.

(Mark 8:26) 
Jesus sent him home, saying, “Do not go into the village.”

(Mark 8:27) 
Jesus and His disciples went to the villages of Caesarea Philippi. On the way, He asked His disciples, “Who do people say that I am?”

(Mark 8:28) 
They replied, “John the Baptist. Others say Elijah, and others say one of the prophets.”

(Mark 8:29) 
Then He asked them, “But who do *you* say that I am?” Peter answered, “You are the Christ.”

(Mark 8:30) 
He strongly warned them not to tell anyone about Him.

(Mark 8:31) 
Jesus then began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders, the chief priests, and the scribes, and be killed, and then rise three days later.

(Mark 8:32) 
He spoke openly about this. Peter took Him aside and began to rebuke Him.

(Mark 8:33) 
But Jesus turned, and looking at His disciples, rebuked Peter and said, “Get behind me, Satan, because you are not thinking the things of God, but the things of men.”

(Mark 8:34) 
Then, calling the crowd to Himself along with His disciples, Jesus said to them: “If anyone wants to follow Me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow Me.

(Mark 8:35) 
For whoever wants to save his own life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for My sake and the Gospel will save it.

(Mark 8:36) 
What does it profit a man to gain the whole world, yet forfeit his soul?

(Mark 8:37) 
Or what can a man give in exchange for his soul?

(Mark 8:38) 
If anyone is ashamed of Me and My words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of Man will also be ashamed of him when He comes in the glory of His Father with the holy angels.

(Mark 9:1) 
And He was telling them: “Truly, I say to you, some of those standing here will not experience death until they see the reign of God coming with power.”

(Mark 9:2) 
And after six days, Jesus took Peter, and James, and John, and led them up to a high mountain apart by themselves, and He was transfigured before them.

(Mark 9:3) 
And His garments became shining, extremely white as snow, of a whiteness no fuller on earth can produce.

(Mark 9:4) 
And Elijah appeared to them with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus.

(Mark 9:5) 
Then Peter responded, and said to Jesus: “Rabbi, it is good for us to be here. So, let us build three tabernacles—one for You, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.”

(Mark 9:6) 
For he did not know what he was saying, because they were overcome with fear.

(Mark 9:7) 
And a cloud appeared, overshadowing them, and a voice came from the cloud, saying: “This is My beloved Son, hear Him.”

(Mark 9:8) 
And immediately, looking around, they saw no one any more, except Jesus only with them.

(Mark 9:9) 
And as they were coming down from the mountain, He commanded them not to tell anyone what they had seen, until the Son of Man had risen from the dead.

(Mark 9:10) 
And they kept the word to themselves, questioning among themselves what this “rising from the dead” might be.

(Mark 9:11) 
And they questioned Him, saying: “Why then do the Pharisees and scribes say that Elijah must come first?”

(Mark 9:12) 
Then He, answering, said to them: “Elijah does come first, and will restore all things. But how is it written concerning the Son of Man, that He must suffer many things and be despised?

(Mark 9:13) 
But I tell you, that Elijah has also come, and they did to him whatever they wished, just as it is written of him.”

(Mark 9:14) 
And coming to the disciples, they saw a large crowd around them and scribes disputing with them.

(Mark 9:15) 
And immediately the whole crowd, seeing Jesus, were astonished, and running to Him, they greeted Him.

(Mark 9:16) 
And He asked them: “What are you disputing among yourselves?”

(Mark 9:17) 
And one of the crowd responded, and said: “Teacher, I brought my son to You because he has an unclean spirit.

(Mark 9:18) 
And wherever it seizes him, it throws him down, and he foams at the mouth, grinds his teeth, and becomes rigid. And I told Your disciples to cast it out, but they could not.”

(Mark 9:19) 
Then He answered them: “O faithless generation, how long will I be with you? How long will I put up with you? Bring him to Me.”

(Mark 9:20) 
And they brought him to Him. And as soon as the spirit saw Him, it immediately threw the boy into convulsions. And falling on the ground, he rolled around, foaming at the mouth.

(Mark 9:21) 
And He asked his father: “How long has this been happening to him?” And he said: “From childhood.

(Mark 9:22) 
And often it has thrown him into fire and into water, to destroy him. But if You can do anything, help us and have pity on us.”

(Mark 9:23) 
Jesus said to him: “If you can believe, all things are possible to him who believes.”

(Mark 9:24) 
And immediately the father of the boy cried out with tears, saying: “I believe, Lord. Help my unbelief.”

(Mark 9:25) 
And when Jesus saw that the crowd was running together, He rebuked the unclean spirit, and said to it: “Mute and deaf spirit, I command you, come out of him, and never enter him again.”

(Mark 9:26) 
And crying out and tearing him severely, it came out. And the boy became like a corpse, so that many said he was dead.

(Mark 9:27) 
But Jesus, taking his hand, lifted him up, and he arose.

(Mark 9:28) 
And when He had entered the house, His disciples asked Him privately: “Why could we not cast it out?”

(Mark 9:29) 
And He said to them: “This kind can be cast out by nothing except by prayer and fasting.”

(Mark 9:30) 
And departing from there, they were passing through Galilee. And He did not want anyone to know, because He was teaching His disciples, and He was saying to them: “The Son of Man will be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill Him; and being killed, after three days, He will rise.”

(Mark 9:31) 
But they did not understand the word, and they were afraid to ask Him.

(Mark 9:32) 
And they came to Capernaum. And when they had entered the house, He was asking them: “What were you arguing about on the way?”

(Mark 9:33) 
But they were silent, for on the way they had argued among themselves about who was the greatest.

(Mark 9:34) 
And sitting down, He called the twelve, and said to them: “If anyone wishes to be first, he will be last of all and the servant of all.”

(Mark 9:35) 
And taking a child, He set him in their midst, and embracing him, He said to them:

(Mark 9:36) 
“Whoever receives one of these children in My name receives Me, and whoever receives Me, does not receive Me but Him who sent Me.”

(Mark 9:37) 
John answered Him, saying: “Teacher, we saw someone casting out demons in Your name, who does not follow us, and we forbade him.”

(Mark 9:38) 
But Jesus said: “Do not forbid him, for there is no one who does a mighty work in My name, and can soon speak evil of Me.”

(Mark 9:39) 
For he who is not against us is for us.

(Mark 9:40) 
For whoever gives you a cup of water to drink in My name, because you are Christ’s, truly I say to you, he will not lose his reward.

(Mark 9:41) 
And whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in Me to stumble, it would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck, and he were cast into the sea.

(Mark 9:42) 
And if your hand causes you to stumble, cut it off. It is better for you to enter into life maimed, than to having two hands, go into hell, into the unquenchable fire,

(Mark 9:43) 
where their worm does not die, and the fire is not extinguished.

(Mark 9:44) 
And if your foot causes you to stumble, cut it off. It is better for you to enter into eternal life lame, than to having two feet, be cast into the hell of unquenchable fire,

(Mark 9:45) 
where their worm does not die, and the fire is not extinguished.

(Mark 9:46) 
And if your eye causes you to stumble, cast it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye, than to having two eyes, be cast into the hell of fire,

(Mark 9:47) 
where their worm does not die, and the fire is not extinguished.

(Mark 9:48) 
For everyone will be salted with fire, and every sacrifice will be seasoned with salt.

(Mark 9:49) 
Salt is good, but if salt becomes tasteless, with what will you season it?

(Mark 9:50) 
Have salt in yourselves, and keep peace among yourselves.”

(Mark 10:1) 
And then, He rose and went into the borders of Judea beyond the Jordan. Again, the crowds gathered to Him, and He was teaching them again.

(Mark 10:2) 
And the Pharisees approached Him and questioned Him: "Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife?" They were trying to trip Him up.

(Mark 10:3) 
But He answering, said to them: "What did Moses command you?"

(Mark 10:4) 
They said: "Moses allowed a man to write a bill of divorce and to put her away."

(Mark 10:5) 
To whom Jesus answering, said: "Because of the hardness of your hearts, he wrote you this commandment."

(Mark 10:6) 
But from the beginning of creation, God made them male and female.

(Mark 10:7) 
For this cause, a man shall leave his father and mother, and cleave to his wife.

(Mark 10:8) 
And the two will be in one flesh. Therefore, they are no longer two, but one flesh.

(Mark 10:9) 
What God has joined together, let no man separate."

(Mark 10:10) 
And in the house, the disciples again questioned Him about the same matter.

(Mark 10:11) 
And He said to them: "Whoever puts away his wife, and marries another, commits adultery against her.

(Mark 10:12) 
And if a woman puts away her husband, and is married to another, she commits adultery.

(Mark 10:13) 
And they were bringing little children to Him, that He might touch them. But the disciples were rebuking those who were bringing them.

(Mark 10:14) 
When Jesus saw this, He was indignant, and said to them: "Allow the little children to come to Me, and do not forbid them: for of such is the kingdom of God.

(Mark 10:15) 
Amen I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God, as a child, will not enter into it."

(Mark 10:16) 
And embracing them, and imposing hands upon them, He blessed them.

(Mark 10:17) 
And as He was going out into the way, a certain man, running up and kneeling to Him, was asking Him: "Good Master, what must I do that I may receive eternal life?"

(Mark 10:18) 
And Jesus said to him: "Why do you call Me good? No one is good, but God alone.

(Mark 10:19) 
You know the commandments: 'Do not commit adultery. Do not kill. Do not steal. Do not bear false witness. Do not commit fraud. Honor your father and your mother.'

(Mark 10:20) 
But he answering, said to Him: "Master, I have kept all these things from my youth."

(Mark 10:21) 
And Jesus looking upon him, loved him, and said to him: "One thing is lacking to you: go, sell all that you have, and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven: and come, follow Me."

(Mark 10:22) 
But he, being saddened by the word, went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions.

(Mark 10:23) 
And Jesus, looking around, said to His disciples: "How difficult it is for those who have riches to enter into the kingdom of God!"

(Mark 10:24) 
But the disciples were astonished at His words. But Jesus again answering, said to them: "Children, how difficult it is for those who trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God!"

(Mark 10:25) 
It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God."

(Mark 10:26) 
And they were much more astonished, saying among themselves: "Who then can be saved?"

(Mark 10:27) 
And Jesus, looking upon them, said: "With men it is impossible; but not with God. For all things are possible with God."

(Mark 10:28) 
And Peter began to say to Him: "Behold, we have left all things, and have followed You."

(Mark 10:29) 
Jesus answering, said: "Amen I say to you, there is no one who has left home, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or children, or lands, for My sake, and for the Gospel,

(Mark 10:30) 
who will not receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses, and brothers, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands, with persecutions, and in the world to come life everlasting.

(Mark 10:31) 
But many that are first will be last, and the last will be first."

(Mark 10:32) 
And they were on the road, going up to Jerusalem: and Jesus was preceding them, and they were astonished: and those who followed were afraid. And taking the twelve again, He began to tell them the things that were to happen to Him.

(Mark 10:33) 
Saying: "Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests, and the scribes, and they will condemn Him to death, and will deliver Him to the Gentiles:

(Mark 10:34) 
And they will mock Him, and spit upon Him, and scourge Him, and kill Him: and the third day He will rise again."

(Mark 10:35) 
And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, approached Him, saying: "Master, we want You to do whatever we ask."

(Mark 10:36) 
But He said to them: "What do you want Me to do for you?"

(Mark 10:37) 
And they said to Him: "Grant to us that one of us may sit at Your right hand, and the other at Your left, in Your glory."

(Mark 10:38) 
But Jesus said to them: "You do not know what you are asking. Can you drink the chalice that I drink? Or be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?"

(Mark 10:39) 
They said to Him: "We can." And Jesus said to them: "The chalice indeed that I drink, you shall drink: and with the baptism that I am baptized, you shall be baptized.

(Mark 10:40) 
But to sit at My right hand or at My left is not Mine to give to you, but to those for whom it is prepared."

(Mark 10:41) 
And the ten hearing it, began to be indignant at James and John.

(Mark 10:42) 
But Jesus calling them, said to them: "You know that those who are seen to rule over the Gentiles, lord it over them: and their great ones exercise power over them.

(Mark 10:43) 
But it shall not be so among you: but whoever will become greater among you, will be your servant:

(Mark 10:44) 
and whoever will want to be first among you, will be the servant of all.

(Mark 10:45) 
For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give His life a redemption for many."

(Mark 10:46) 
And they came to Jericho. And as He was departing from Jericho, and with His disciples and a great multitude, Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, a blind beggar, was sitting by the road.

(Mark 10:47) 
And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say: "Son of David, Jesus, have mercy on me."

(Mark 10:48) 
And many were rebuking him, that he should be quiet: but he cried out much more: "Son of David, have mercy on me."

(Mark 10:49) 
And Jesus standing, ordered him to be called. And they called the blind man, saying to him: "Have confidence: arise, He calls you."

(Mark 10:50) 
Who, casting off his garment, leaping up, came to Him.

(Mark 10:51) 
And answering, Jesus said to him: "What do you want Me to do for you?" The blind man said to Him: "Rabboni, that I may see."

(Mark 10:52) 
And Jesus said to him: "Go your way; your faith has made you safe." And immediately he saw and followed Him in the way.

(Mark 11:1) 
As He approached Jerusalem, and the towns of Bethany and Bethphage on the Mount of Olives, He sent two of His disciples,

(Mark 11:2) 
saying to them: “Go into the village which is in front of you. Entering into it right away, you will find a colt tied up. No one has ever ridden on it. Untie it, and bring it.”

(Mark 11:3) 
“If anyone asks you, ‘What are you doing?’ Say that the Lord has need of it, and He will send it back here immediately.”

(Mark 11:4) 
So they went off and found the colt tied up at a door outside, at a fork in the road, and they untied it.

(Mark 11:5) 
Some of those standing there said to them: “What are you doing, untying the colt?”

(Mark 11:6) 
They replied as Jesus had told them to, and they let them go.

(Mark 11:7) 
Then they brought the colt to Jesus. They put their cloaks on it, and He sat upon it.

(Mark 11:8) 
And many people spread their cloaks on the road, while others cut down branches from the trees and scattered them on the road.

(Mark 11:9) 
And those who went ahead and those who followed were shouting, saying: “Hosanna! Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord!”

(Mark 11:10) 
“Blessed is the kingdom of our father David, which is coming! Hosanna in the highest!”

(Mark 11:11) 
He entered into Jerusalem, and into the temple. And after looking around at everything, since it was already late in the day, He went out to Bethany with the twelve.

(Mark 11:12) 
On the next day, as they were leaving Bethany, He became hungry.

(Mark 11:13) 
Seeing in the distance a fig tree in leaf, He went to see if perhaps He could find anything on it. When He went up to it, He found nothing but leaves, for it was not the season for figs.

(Mark 11:14) 
Then He said to it: “May no one ever eat fruit from you again.” And His disciples heard it.

(Mark 11:15) 
And they went to Jerusalem. And Jesus went into the temple and began to throw out those selling and buying in the temple. He overturned the tables of the money changers and the chairs of those selling doves.

(Mark 11:16) 
He would not allow anyone to carry anything through the temple.

(Mark 11:17) 
And He taught them, saying to them: “Is it not written, ‘My house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations’? But you have made it a den of thieves.”

(Mark 11:18) 
The scribes and chief priests heard this and began looking for a way to kill Him, for they were afraid of Him, because all the people were amazed by His teaching.

(Mark 11:19) 
When evening came, He went out of the city.

(Mark 11:20) 
And as they were passing by in the morning, they saw the fig tree withered from the roots.

(Mark 11:21) 
Then Peter, remembering, said to Him: “Rabbi, look! The fig tree which you cursed has dried up.”

(Mark 11:22) 
And Jesus answered, saying to them: “Have faith in God.”

(Mark 11:23) 
“Truly, I say to you, if anyone says to this mountain, ‘Be lifted up and thrown into the sea,’ and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says will happen, it will be done for him.

(Mark 11:24) 
“Therefore I tell you, whatever you pray and ask for, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours.

(Mark 11:25) 
“And whenever you stand praying, forgive anything you have against anyone, so that your Father in the universe may also forgive you your sins.”

(Mark 11:26) 
“But if you do not forgive, neither will your Father who is in the universe forgive your sins.”

(Mark 11:27) 
And again they came to Jerusalem. And as He was walking in the temple, the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders came to Him,

(Mark 11:28) 
and they were saying to Him: “By what authority are you doing these things? And who gave You this authority to do these things?”

(Mark 11:29) 
Jesus answered them, “I will ask you one question, and if you answer Me, I will tell you by what authority I do these things.

(Mark 11:30) 
“Was the baptism of John from the universe, or from men? Answer Me.”

(Mark 11:31) 
And they were reasoning among themselves, saying: “If we say, ‘From the universe,’ He will say, ‘Then why did you not believe him?’”

(Mark 11:32) 
“But if we say, ‘From men,’ we fear the people, for they all consider John to have been a true prophet.”

(Mark 11:33) 
So they answered Jesus, saying, “We do not know.” And Jesus answered them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.”

(Mark 12:1) 
And He began to speak to them in parables: “A man planted a vineyard and put a fence around it, and dug a pit, and built a tower. Then he leased it to tenant farmers, and went away on a journey.

(Mark 12:2) 
And when the harvest season came, he sent a servant to the farmers to collect the fruit of the vineyard.

(Mark 12:3) 
And seizing the servant, they beat him and sent him away empty-handed.

(Mark 12:4) 
And he sent to them again another servant, and him they wounded in the head, and treated shamefully.

(Mark 12:5) 
Then he sent another one, and him they killed. And he sent many others, some of whom they beat, and some they killed.

(Mark 12:6) 
He still had one beloved son. Finally, he sent him to them, saying, ‘Surely they will respect my son.’

(Mark 12:7) 
But those farmers said to one another, ‘This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours.’

(Mark 12:8) 
And seizing him, they killed him, and cast him out of the vineyard.

(Mark 12:9) 
What therefore will the Lord of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the farmers, and will give the vineyard to others.

(Mark 12:10) 
Have you not read this scripture: ‘The stone which the builders rejected, the same is become the head of the corner.

(Mark 12:11) 
This was done by the Lord, and it is wonderful in our eyes’?

(Mark 12:12) 
And they sought to seize Him, but they feared the crowds, for they knew that He had spoken the parable to them. And leaving Him, they went away.

(Mark 12:13) 
And they sent to Him some of the Pharisees and of the Herodians, to catch Him in His speech.

(Mark 12:14) 
And when they were come, they said to Him, “Teacher, we know that you are truthful and care for no one; for you do not regard the person of men, but teach the way of God in truth. Is it lawful to pay tribute to Caesar, or shall we not pay?”

(Mark 12:15) 
But He, knowing their hypocrisy, said to them, “Why are you tempting me? Bring me a denarius that I may see it.”

(Mark 12:16) 
And they brought it. And He said to them, “Whose is this image and inscription?” They said to Him, “Caesar’s.”

(Mark 12:17) 
And Jesus answering, said to them, “Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.” And they were astonished at Him.

(Mark 12:18) 
And there came to Him the Sadducees, who say that there is no resurrection; and they were questioning Him, saying:

(Mark 12:19) 
“Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man’s brother dies and leaves a wife, and leaves no children, his brother should take the wife and raise up seed for his brother.

(Mark 12:20) 
There were seven brothers, and the first took a wife, and died without leaving children.

(Mark 12:21) 
And the second took her, and died, and neither did he leave children. And the third in like manner.

(Mark 12:22) 
And the seven took her, and left no seed. Last of all, the woman died also.

(Mark 12:23) 
In the resurrection, therefore, when they rise again, whose wife shall she be of them? For the seven had her as a wife.”

(Mark 12:24) 
And Jesus answering, said to them, “You are mistaken, because you do not know the Scriptures, nor the power of God.

(Mark 12:25) 
For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like the angels in the heavens.

(Mark 12:26) 
And as for the dead, that they rise again, have you not read in the book of Moses, in the passage about the bush, how God spoke to him, saying:

(Mark 12:27) 
‘I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’? He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. Therefore, you are much mistaken.”

(Mark 12:28) 
And one of the scribes, who had heard them disputing, and seeing that He had answered them well, asked Him: “Which commandment is the first of all?”

(Mark 12:29) 
And Jesus answered him: “The first is: ‘Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one.

(Mark 12:30) 
‘And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength.’ This is the first commandment.

(Mark 12:31) 
And the second is like this: ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’ There is no other commandment greater than these.”

(Mark 12:32) 
And the scribe said to Him: “Well, Teacher, you have spoken the truth, for there is one God, and there is no other but Him:

(Mark 12:33) 
‘And to love Him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love one’s neighbor as oneself, is greater than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices.”

(Mark 12:34) 
And Jesus, seeing that he had answered wisely, said to him: “You are not far from the kingdom of God.” And no one dared to question Him anymore.

(Mark 12:35) 
And Jesus, answering, said, while teaching in the temple: “How do the scribes say that the Christ is the son of David?

(Mark 12:36) 
For David himself said in the Holy Spirit, ‘The Lord said to my Lord: Sit at My right hand, until I make Your enemies Your footstool.’

(Mark 12:37) 
David himself calls Him ‘Lord.’ How is He then his son?”

(Mark 12:38) 
And the great multitude listened to Him with pleasure.

(Mark 12:39) 
And in His teaching He was saying: “Beware of the scribes, who wish to walk in long robes, and to be greeted in the marketplace,

(Mark 12:40) 
and the chief seats in the synagogues, and the first places at feasts.

(Mark 12:41) 
They devour the houses of widows under the guise of long prayers. These will receive a more severe judgment.”

(Mark 12:42) 
And Jesus sat down opposite the treasury, and watched how the crowd was casting money into the treasury. And many rich people were throwing in much.

(Mark 12:43) 
And a poor widow came and put in two small copper coins, which make a farthing.

(Mark 12:44) 
And calling His disciples to Him, He said to them: “Amen I say to you, that this poor widow has cast in more than all those who have cast into the treasury.

(Mark 12:45) 
For they all put in out of their abundance; but she out of her poverty has put in all that she had, even her whole living.”

(Mark 13:1) 
As He left the temple, one of His disciples said, “Teacher, look at the enormous stones and impressive buildings!”

(Mark 13:2) 
Jesus answered, “Do you see these great buildings? Not a stone will be left upon a stone; all will be torn down.”

(Mark 13:3) 
As He sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter, James, John, and Andrew asked Him privately:

(Mark 13:4) 
“Tell us, when will these things happen? And what sign will there be when all these things are about to be fulfilled?”

(Mark 13:5) 
Jesus began to say to them: “Be careful that no one deceives you.

(Mark 13:6) 
For many will come in My name, saying, ‘I am He,’ and they will deceive many.

(Mark 13:7) 
And when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be alarmed; for such things must happen, but the end is not yet.

(Mark 13:8) 
For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. There will be earthquakes in various places, and famines. These are the beginning of birth pangs.

(Mark 13:9) 
“But be careful yourselves; for they will deliver you up to councils, and you will be beaten in synagogues. You will stand before governors and kings for My sake, for a testimony to them.

(Mark 13:10) 
And the gospel must first be preached to all the nations.

(Mark 13:11) 
And when they deliver you and bring you to trial, do not worry beforehand about what you are to say, but say whatever is given you at that hour; for it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit.

(Mark 13:12) 
And brother will deliver brother to death, and the father his child; and children will rise up against parents and cause them to be put to death.

(Mark 13:13) 
And you will be hated by everyone because of My name, but the one who perseveres to the end will be saved.

(Mark 13:14) 
“But when you see the abomination of desolation standing where it should not be (let the reader understand), then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains.

(Mark 13:15) 
Let the one who is on the housetop not go down, nor enter the house to take anything out.

(Mark 13:16) 
And let the one who is in the field not turn back to get his cloak.

(Mark 13:17) 
“But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing infants in those days!

(Mark 13:18) 
Pray that it may not happen in the winter.

(Mark 13:19) 
“For those days will be a time of tribulation, such as has not occurred from the beginning of the creation which God created until now, and never will occur.

(Mark 13:20) 
“And unless the Lord shortened those days, no one would be saved; but for the sake of the elect, whom He chose, He shortened the days.

(Mark 13:21) 
“And then if anyone says to you, ‘Behold, here is the Christ,’ or, ‘Behold, He is there,’ do not believe it.

(Mark 13:22) 
For false Christs and false prophets will arise, and will show signs and wonders, in order to lead astray, if possible, the elect.

(Mark 13:23) 
“But be on your guard; I have told you everything beforehand.

(Mark 13:24) 
“But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light,

(Mark 13:25) 
and the stars will be falling from heaven, and the powers that are in the heavens will be shaken.

(Mark 13:26) 
“And then they will see the Son of Man coming in clouds with great power and glory.

(Mark 13:27) 
“And then He will send forth the angels, and will gather together His elect from the four winds, from the farthest end of the earth to the farthest end of heaven.

(Mark 13:28) 
“Now learn the parable from the fig tree: when its branch has already become tender and puts forth its leaves, you know that summer is near.

(Mark 13:29) 
“So also you, when you see these things happening, recognize that He is near, right at the doors.

(Mark 13:30) 
“Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place.

(Mark 13:31) 
“Heaven and earth will pass away, but My words will not pass away.

(Mark 13:32) 
“But of that day or hour, no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but the Father.

(Mark 13:33) 
“Be on the alert, keep awake, and pray; for you do not know when the time will come.

(Mark 13:34) 
“It is like a man away on a journey, who upon leaving his house and putting his servants in charge, assigning to each one his task, also commanded the doorkeeper to stay awake.

(Mark 13:35) 
“Therefore, be on the alert—for you do not know when the master of the house is coming, whether in the evening, or at midnight, or at the rooster’s crowing, or in the morning—

(Mark 13:36) 
lest he come suddenly and find you asleep.

(Mark 13:37) 
“What I say to you I say to all: ‘Be on the alert!’”

(Mark 14:1) 
The Passover and Unleavened Bread were coming in two days. The chief priests and scribes sought how to seize Jesus by treachery and kill Him.

(Mark 14:2) 
They said, “Not during the festival, lest there be a riot among the people.”

(Mark 14:3) 
Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, and as He reclined at table, a woman came with an alabaster flask of very costly ointment of pure nard. Breaking the flask, she poured the ointment over His head.

(Mark 14:4) 
Some were indignant within themselves and said, “Why was this waste of ointment made?

(Mark 14:5) 
It could have been sold for more than three hundred denarii and given to the poor.” And they were angry at her.

(Mark 14:6) 
Jesus said, “Let her alone! Why do you bother her? She has done a good work for Me.

(Mark 14:7) 
For you always have the poor with you, and whenever you want, you can do good to them. But you do not always have Me.

(Mark 14:8) 
She has done what she could; she has beforehand anointed My body for burial.

(Mark 14:9) 
Amen, I say to you, wherever the Gospel is proclaimed throughout the whole world, what she has done will be told in memory of her.”

(Mark 14:10) 
Then Judas Iscariot, one of the Twelve, went to the chief priests to hand Jesus over to them.

(Mark 14:11) 
They were pleased when they heard this and promised to give him money. And he sought how to betray Him at a convenient time.

(Mark 14:12) 
On the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, when they sacrificed the Passover, His disciples said to Him, “Where do you want us to go to prepare for You to eat the Passover?”

(Mark 14:13) 
He sent two of His disciples and said to them, “Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him.

(Mark 14:14) 
Wherever he enters, say to the master of the house, ‘The Teacher says, “Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with My disciples?”’

(Mark 14:15) 
Then he will show you a large upper room furnished and ready. Prepare for us there.”

(Mark 14:16) 
The disciples went out and came to the city and found everything as He had told them, and they prepared the Passover.

(Mark 14:17) 
When it was evening, He came with the Twelve.

(Mark 14:18) 
As they reclined and were eating, Jesus said, “Amen, I say to you, one of you will betray Me, the one eating with Me.”

(Mark 14:19) 
They began to be sorrowful and to say to Him one by one, “Surely not I?”

(Mark 14:20) 
He said to them in reply, “One of the Twelve, the one who dips his hand into the dish with Me.

(Mark 14:21) 
The Son of Man goes as it is written about Him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been better for that man if he had not been born.”

(Mark 14:22) 
While they were eating, He took bread, said the blessing, broke it, gave it to them, and said, “Take this, this is My body.”

(Mark 14:23) 
Then He took a cup, gave thanks, and gave it to them, and they all drank from it.

(Mark 14:24) 
He said to them, “This is My blood of the covenant, which will be shed for many.

(Mark 14:25) 
Amen, I say to you, I shall not drink again the fruit of the vine until the day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.”

(Mark 14:26) 
Then, after singing a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.

(Mark 14:27) 
Jesus said to them, “You will all have your faith shaken, for it is written: ‘I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.’

(Mark 14:28) 
But after I am raised up, I shall go before you to Galilee.”

(Mark 14:29) 
Peter said to Him, “Even though all should have their faith shaken, I will not.”

(Mark 14:30) 
Jesus said to him, “Amen, I say to you, this very night before the cock crows twice, you will deny Me three times.”

(Mark 14:31) 
But he vehemently protested, “Even though I should have to die with You, I will not deny You.” And they all spoke similarly.

(Mark 14:32) 
They came to a place named Gethsemane, and He said to His disciples, “Sit here while I pray.”

(Mark 14:33) 
He took with Him Peter, James, and John, and began to be troubled and distressed.

(Mark 14:34) 
He said to them, “My soul is sorrowful even to death. Remain here and keep watch.”

(Mark 14:35) 
He advanced a little and fell to the ground and prayed that if it were possible, the hour might pass Him.

(Mark 14:36) 
He said, “Abba, Father, all things are possible to You. Take this cup away from Me, but not what I will, but what You will.”

(Mark 14:37) 
Then He returned and found them sleeping. He said to Peter, “Simon, are you asleep? Could you not keep watch for one hour?

(Mark 14:38) 
Keep watch and pray that you may not undergo the test. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.”

(Mark 14:39) 
Again He went away and prayed, saying the same thing.

(Mark 14:40) 
Again He returned and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy, and they did not know what to answer Him.

(Mark 14:41) 
He returned a third time and said to them, “Are you still sleeping and taking your rest? It is over. The hour has come. Behold, the Son of Man is to be handed over to sinners.

(Mark 14:42) 
Get up, let us go. See, My betrayer is near.”

(Mark 14:43) 
Immediately, while He was still speaking, Judas, one of the Twelve, arrived, accompanied by a crowd with swords and clubs, sent by the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders.

(Mark 14:44) 
The one who was to hand Him over had given them a sign, saying, “Whomever I shall kiss is the one; seize him and lead him away securely.”

(Mark 14:45) 
And when he came, he immediately went up to Him and said, “Rabbi,” and kissed Him.

(Mark 14:46) 
Then they laid hands on Him.

(Mark 14:47) 
One of the bystanders drew his sword, struck the servant of the high priest, and cut off his ear.

(Mark 14:48) 
Jesus said to them in reply, “Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs, to seize Me?

(Mark 14:49) 
Day after day I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not arrest Me; but that the Scriptures may be fulfilled.”

(Mark 14:50) 
And they all left Him and fled.

(Mark 14:51) 
Now a young man followed Him, wearing nothing but a linen cloth about his body. They tried to seize him,

(Mark 14:52) 
but he left the linen cloth behind and ran off naked.

(Mark 14:53) 
They led Jesus away to the high priest, and all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes came together.

(Mark 14:54) 
Peter followed Him at a distance, right into the high priest's courtyard, where he sat with the guards and warmed himself by the fire.

(Mark 14:55) 
The chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were seeking testimony against Jesus so they could put Him to death, but they found none.

(Mark 14:56) 
Many gave false testimony against Him, but their testimonies did not agree.

(Mark 14:57) 
Some began to give false testimony against Him, saying,

(Mark 14:58) 
“We heard Him say, ‘I will destroy this temple made with hands and within three days I will build another not made with hands.’”

(Mark 14:59) 
But not even so did their testimony agree.

(Mark 14:60) 
The high priest rose before them and questioned Jesus, saying, “Have you no answer? What are these men testifying against you?”

(Mark 14:61) 
But He remained silent and answered nothing. Again the high priest questioned Him and said to Him, “Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed One?”

(Mark 14:62) 
Jesus said, “I AM; and you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of the Power and coming with the clouds of the sky.”

(Mark 14:63) 
The high priest tore his garments and said, “What further need have we of witnesses?

(Mark 14:64) 
You have heard the blasphemy. What do you think?” They all condemned Him as deserving to die.

(Mark 14:65) 
Some began to spit on Him. They blindfolded Him and began to beat Him, and to say to Him, “Prophesy!”

(Mark 14:66) 
The guards also took Him and beat Him.

(Mark 14:67) 
While Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the high priest’s maids came.

(Mark 14:68) 
Seeing Peter warming himself, she looked intently at him and said, “You too were with Jesus of Nazareth.”

(Mark 14:69) 
But he denied it, saying, “I neither know nor understand what you are saying.” And he went out to the forecourt, and the cock crowed.

(Mark 14:70) 
The maid saw him and began again to say to the bystanders, “This man is one of them.”

(Mark 14:71) 
He again denied it. After a little while the bystanders again said to Peter, “Surely you are one of them; for you are a Galilean.”

(Mark 14:72) 
He began to curse and to swear, “I do not know this man about whom you are speaking.”

(Mark 14:73) 
Immediately the cock crowed a second time. Peter remembered the word that Jesus had said to him, “Before the cock crows twice, you will deny Me three times.” And he broke down and wept.

(Mark 15:1) 
Early in the morning, the high priests, elders, scribes, and the entire council made a plan. They bound Jesus, brought Him, and handed Him over to Pilate.

(Mark 15:2) 
Pilate questioned Him, asking: “Are you the king of the Jews?” He replied: “You say so.”

(Mark 15:3) 
And many accused Him of many things.

(Mark 15:4) 
Pilate questioned Him again, saying: “Won’t you answer? See how many things they are accusing you of?”

(Mark 15:5) 
But Jesus still did not reply, so Pilate was amazed.

(Mark 15:6) 
Now, it was customary for him to release one prisoner at the feast, whomever they requested.

(Mark 15:7) 
There was a man called Barabbas, who was imprisoned with those who had started a revolt and committed murder during the revolt.

(Mark 15:8) 
The crowd then came up and began to request that he do for them what he always did.

(Mark 15:9) 
Pilate answered them, saying: “Do you want me to release for you the king of the Jews?”

(Mark 15:10) 
For he knew that the high priests had handed Him over out of envy.

(Mark 15:11) 
The high priests stirred up the crowd so that he would release Barabbas for them instead.

(Mark 15:12) 
Pilate answered them again, saying: “Then what do you want me to do with the king of the Jews?”

(Mark 15:13) 
They shouted back: “Crucify him!”

(Mark 15:14) 
Pilate said to them: “Why, what wrong has he done?” But they shouted all the louder: “Crucify him!”

(Mark 15:15) 
Pilate, wanting to satisfy the crowd, released Barabbas for them and handed Jesus over to be scourged and crucified.

(Mark 15:16) 
The soldiers then brought Him into the courtyard, that is, the praetorium, and called together the entire cohort.

(Mark 15:17) 
They put a purple cloak on Him, and twisted a crown of thorns and placed it on Him.

(Mark 15:18) 
Then they began to salute Him: “Hail, king of the Jews!”

(Mark 15:19) 
And they struck Him on the head with a reed. They spat on Him, and bowing their knees, they worshipped Him.

(Mark 15:20) 
After mocking Him, they took the purple cloak off Him and put His own clothes back on. Then they led Him out to crucify Him.

(Mark 15:21) 
They compelled a certain passer-by, Simon of Cyrene, who was coming from the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to carry His cross.

(Mark 15:22) 
They brought Him to the place Golgotha, which means, the place of the skull.

(Mark 15:23) 
They offered Him wine mixed with myrrh, but He didn’t take it.

(Mark 15:24) 
And they crucified Him, and divided His garments among them, casting lots for them to see what each one would take.

(Mark 15:25) 
It was the third hour when they crucified Him.

(Mark 15:26) 
The inscription of the charge against Him was written: “The King of the Jews.”

(Mark 15:27) 
With Him, they crucified two thieves, one on His right and the other on His left.

(Mark 15:28) 
And the Scripture was fulfilled which says, “And he was counted among the wicked.”

(Mark 15:29) 
Those who passed by blasphemed Him, shaking their heads and saying, “Aha! You who destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days,

(Mark 15:30) 
save yourself by coming down from the cross!”

(Mark 15:31) 
In the same way, the high priests mocked Him among themselves with the scribes, saying, “He saved others; He can’t save Himself.”

(Mark 15:32) 
“Let Christ, the king of Israel, come down now from the cross, so that we may see and believe.” Even those who were crucified with Him reviled Him.

(Mark 15:33) 
When the sixth hour came, darkness fell over the whole earth until the ninth hour.

(Mark 15:34) 
At the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, “Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani?” which means, “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?”

(Mark 15:35) 
Some of the bystanders, hearing this, said: “Look, he’s calling for Elijah.”

(Mark 15:36) 
Someone ran and filled a sponge with vinegar, put it on a reed, and offered it to Him to drink, saying, “Wait! Let us see if Elijah comes to take Him down.”

(Mark 15:37) 
Then Jesus, uttering a loud cry, breathed His last.

(Mark 15:38) 
And the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom.

(Mark 15:39) 
When the centurion who stood facing Him saw that He had breathed His last in this way, he said, “Truly this man was the Son of God.”

(Mark 15:40) 
There were also women looking on from a distance, among whom were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James the younger and of Joses, and Salome.

(Mark 15:41) 
They had followed Him when He was in Galilee, ministering to Him, and there were many other women who had come up with Him to Jerusalem.

(Mark 15:42) 
When evening had come, because it was the Preparation Day, that is, the day before the Sabbath,

(Mark 15:43) 
Joseph of Arimathaea, a respected member of the council, who was also waiting for the kingdom of God, took courage and went to Pilate to ask for the body of Jesus.

(Mark 15:44) 
Pilate was surprised that He was already dead, and summoning the centurion, he asked him if He was already dead.

(Mark 15:45) 
When he learned this from the centurion, he granted the body to Joseph.

(Mark 15:46) 
Having bought a linen shroud, Joseph took Him down, wrapped Him in the linen, and laid Him in a tomb that had been cut out of the rock. Then he rolled a stone against the entrance of the tomb.

(Mark 15:47) 
Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses were looking on where He was laid.

(Mark 16:1) 
After the Sabbath was over, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought perfumed oils, so that when they came to the tomb, they could anoint Jesus.

(Mark 16:2) 
And very early on the first day of the week, they came to the tomb. The sun had just risen.

(Mark 16:3) 
And they were saying to one another: "Who will roll away the stone from the entrance of the tomb?"

(Mark 16:4) 
But looking up, they saw that the stone had been rolled away. It was very large.

(Mark 16:5) 
And entering into the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right, wearing a white robe, and they were astonished.

(Mark 16:6) 
The young man said to them: "Do not be terrified. You are seeking Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He has risen; He is not here. See the place where they laid Him.

(Mark 16:7) 
But go, tell His disciples and Peter, that He goes before you into Galilee. There you will see Him, as He said to you."

(Mark 16:8) 
And they went out and fled from the tomb, for trembling and fear had seized them. And they said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid.

(Mark 16:9) 
Now when Jesus rose early on the first day of the week, He appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom He had cast out seven demons.

(Mark 16:10) 
She went and announced the news to those who had been with Him, who were mourning and weeping.

(Mark 16:11) 
And when they heard that He was alive and had been seen by her, they did not believe.

(Mark 16:12) 
After this, He appeared in a different form to two of them while they were walking to the country.

(Mark 16:13) 
And they went and told the others, and they did not believe them.

(Mark 16:14) 
Finally, as they were reclining at table, He appeared to the eleven. And He rebuked their unbelief and hardness of heart because they had not believed those who saw Him after He had risen.

(Mark 16:15) 
And He said to them: "Go into the entire world and preach the Gospel to every creature.

(Mark 16:16) 
Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned.

(Mark 16:17) 
And these signs will accompany those who believe: In My name they will cast out demons; they will speak in new tongues;

(Mark 16:18) 
they will pick up serpents, and if they drink any deadly thing, it will not harm them; they will lay hands on the sick, and they will recover."

(Mark 16:19) 
So then, after the Lord had spoken to them, He was taken up into the sky and sat at the right hand of God.

(Mark 16:20) 
And they went forth and preached everywhere, while the Lord worked with them and confirmed the word by the signs that followed.