(Luke 1:1) 
Many have undertaken to draw up an account of the events that have been fulfilled among us,

(Luke 1:2) 
as they were handed down to us by those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and servants of the word.

(Luke 1:3) 
Therefore, since I myself have carefully investigated everything from the beginning, it seemed good also to me to write an orderly account for you, most excellent Theophilus,

(Luke 1:4) 
so that you may know the certainty of the things you have been taught.

(Luke 1:5) 
In the time of Herod king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah, of the division of Abijah; and his wife was a descendant of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth.

(Luke 1:6) 
Both of them were righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blamelessly.

(Luke 1:7) 
But they had no children, because Elizabeth was barren, and both were advanced in years.

(Luke 1:8) 
Once when Zechariah was serving as priest before God in the order of his division,

(Luke 1:9) 
according to the custom of the priesthood, he was chosen by lot to enter the temple of the Lord and burn incense.

(Luke 1:10) 
And the whole multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of incense.

(Luke 1:11) 
Then there appeared to him an angel of the Lord, standing on the right side of the altar of incense.

(Luke 1:12) 
When Zechariah saw him, he was startled and was gripped with fear.

(Luke 1:13) 
But the angel said to him: “Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you will call his name John.

(Luke 1:14) 
And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth,

(Luke 1:15) 
because he will be great in the sight of the Lord. He will drink neither wine nor strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother’s womb.

(Luke 1:16) 
And he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God.

(Luke 1:17) 
And he will go on before Him in the spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of parents to their children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the righteous, to make ready for the Lord a people prepared.”

(Luke 1:18) 
And Zechariah said to the angel, “How shall I know this? For I am an old man, and my wife is advanced in years.”

(Luke 1:19) 
And the angel answering said to him: “I am Gabriel, who stands in the presence of God, and was sent to speak to you and bring you this good news.

(Luke 1:20) 
And behold, you will be silent and unable to speak until the day that these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their time.”

(Luke 1:21) 
And the people were waiting for Zechariah, and they were wondering at his delay in the temple.

(Luke 1:22) 
When he came out, he was unable to speak to them, and they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple. And he kept making signs to them and remained mute.

(Luke 1:23) 
And it came to pass that, as soon as the days of his service were completed, he departed to his own house.

(Luke 1:24) 
After those days his wife Elizabeth conceived, and for five months she kept herself hidden, saying,

(Luke 1:25) 
“Thus the Lord has done for me in the days when He looked on me, to take away my reproach among people.”

(Luke 1:26) 
In the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth,

(Luke 1:27) 
to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin's name was Mary.

(Luke 1:28) 
And the angel came to her and said, “Hail, full of grace, the Lord is with you.” Blessed are you among women.

(Luke 1:29) 
But she was greatly troubled at the saying, and considered what sort of greeting this might be.

(Luke 1:30) 
Then the angel said to her, “Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God.

(Luke 1:31) 
And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you will call his name Jesus.

(Luke 1:32) 
He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to Him the throne of His father David,

(Luke 1:33) 
and He will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of His kingdom there will be no end.”

(Luke 1:34) 
And Mary said to the angel, “How will this be, since I do not know a man?”

(Luke 1:35) 
And the angel answered her, “The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you; therefore the child to be born will be holy—he will be called the Son of God.

(Luke 1:36) 
And behold, your relative Elizabeth in her old age has also conceived a son; and this is the sixth month for her who was called barren.

(Luke 1:37) 
For nothing will be impossible with God.”

(Luke 1:38) 
And Mary said, “Behold, I am the servant of the Lord; let it be to me according to your word.” And the angel departed from her.

(Luke 1:39) 
In those days Mary arose and went with haste into the hill country, to a city of Judah,

(Luke 1:40) 
and she entered the house of Zechariah and greeted Elizabeth.

(Luke 1:41) 
And when Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary, the infant leaped in her womb; and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit,

(Luke 1:42) 
and she cried out with a loud voice and said, “Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb!

(Luke 1:43) 
And why is this granted to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me?

(Luke 1:44) 
For behold, as soon as the sound of your greeting came to my ears, the infant in my womb leaped for joy.

(Luke 1:45) 
And blessed is she who believed that there would be a fulfillment of what was spoken to her from the Lord.”

(Luke 1:46) 
And Mary said, “My soul magnifies the Lord,

(Luke 1:47) 
and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior,

(Luke 1:48) 
for He has looked on the humble estate of His servant. For behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed;

(Luke 1:49) 
for He who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is His name.

(Luke 1:50) 
And His mercy is for those who fear Him from generation to generation.

(Luke 1:51) 
He has shown strength with His arm; He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts,

(Luke 1:52) 
He has brought down the mighty from their thrones and has exalted those of humble estate;

(Luke 1:53) 
He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich He has sent away empty.

(Luke 1:54) 
He has helped His servant Israel, in remembrance of His mercy,

(Luke 1:55) 
as He spoke to our fathers, to Abraham and to his offspring forever.”

(Luke 1:56) 
And Mary remained with her about three months and returned to her home.

(Luke 1:57) 
Now the time came for Elizabeth to give birth, and she bore a son.

(Luke 1:58) 
And her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had shown great mercy to her, and they rejoiced with her.

(Luke 1:59) 
And on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child, and they were going to call him by the name of his father Zechariah,

(Luke 1:60) 
and his mother answered, “No; he shall be called John.”

(Luke 1:61) 
And they said to her, “But there is no one among your relatives who is called by this name.”

(Luke 1:62) 
And they made signs to his father, inquiring what he wanted him to be called.

(Luke 1:63) 
And he asked for a writing tablet and wrote, “His name is John.” And they all marveled.

(Luke 1:64) 
And immediately his mouth was opened and his tongue loosed, and he spoke, blessing God.

(Luke 1:65) 
And fear came upon all their neighbors, and all these things were talked about throughout all the hill country of Judea.

(Luke 1:66) 
And all who heard them laid them up in their hearts, saying, “What then will this child be?” For the hand of the Lord was with him.

(Luke 1:67) 
And his father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit, and prophesied, saying,

(Luke 1:68) 
“Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for He has visited and redeemed His people

(Luke 1:69) 
and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of His servant David,

(Luke 1:70) 
as He spoke by the mouth of His holy prophets from of old,

(Luke 1:71) 
that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us;

(Luke 1:72) 
to show mercy to our fathers and to remember His holy covenant,

(Luke 1:73) 
the oath that He swore to our father Abraham, to grant us

(Luke 1:74) 
that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve Him without fear,

(Luke 1:75) 
in holiness and righteousness before Him all our days.

(Luke 1:76) 
And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High; for you will go before the Lord to prepare His ways,

(Luke 1:77) 
to give knowledge of salvation to His people in the forgiveness of their sins,

(Luke 1:78) 
because of the tender mercy of our God, whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high

(Luke 1:79) 
to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace.”

(Luke 1:80) 
And the child grew and became strong in spirit, and he was in the wilderness until the day of his appearing to Israel.

(Luke 2:1) 
In those days, Caesar Augustus gave a decree for a census to be taken of the entire world.

(Luke 2:2) 
This first census took place when Quirinius was governor of Syria.

(Luke 2:3) 
And everyone went to be registered, each person to their own city.

(Luke 2:4) 
So Joseph went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea, to the city of David, called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David,

(Luke 2:5) 
to be registered with Mary, his espoused wife, who was pregnant.

(Luke 2:6) 
And it came to pass that, while they were there, the days were fulfilled for her to give birth.

(Luke 2:7) 
She brought forth her firstborn Son, wrapped Him in swaddling clothes, and laid Him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn.

(Luke 2:8) 
And there were shepherds in the same region, keeping watch and guarding the night over their flock.

(Luke 2:9) 
And behold, an angel of the Lord stood next to them, and the glory of God shone round about them, and they were greatly afraid.

(Luke 2:10) 
Then the angel said to them, “Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people:

(Luke 2:11) 
For to you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord.

(Luke 2:12) 
And this is a sign for you: you will find a baby wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger.”

(Luke 2:13) 
And suddenly there appeared with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying:

(Luke 2:14) 
“Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace to those He favors.”

(Luke 2:15) 
And it came to pass, when the angels went away from them into the sky, that the shepherds said to one another, “Let us go over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us.”

(Luke 2:16) 
And they went with haste and found Mary and Joseph, and the baby lying in a manger.

(Luke 2:17) 
When they had seen, they made known the saying which was told them concerning this Child.

(Luke 2:18) 
And all who heard it were amazed at what the shepherds told them.

(Luke 2:19) 
But Mary kept all these things, pondering them in her heart.

(Luke 2:20) 
And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen, as it was told them.

(Luke 2:21) 
And when eight days were fulfilled for circumcising the Child, His name was called Jesus, the name given by the angel before He was conceived in the womb.

(Luke 2:22) 
And when the days of her purification according to the Law of Moses were fulfilled, they brought Him to Jerusalem to present Him to the Lord,

(Luke 2:23) 
(as it is written in the Law of the Lord, “Every male who opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord,”)

(Luke 2:24) 
and to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the Law of the Lord, “a pair of turtledoves or two young pigeons.”

(Luke 2:25) 
And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and this man was righteous and devout, looking for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him.

(Luke 2:26) 
And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord’s Christ.

(Luke 2:27) 
And he came in the Spirit into the temple. And when the parents brought in the Child Jesus to do for Him according to the custom of the Law,

(Luke 2:28) 
he took Him up in his arms and blessed God and said:

(Luke 2:29) 
“Now, Lord, You are letting Your servant depart in peace, according to Your word;

(Luke 2:30) 
For my eyes have seen Your salvation

(Luke 2:31) 
Which You have prepared before the face of all peoples,

(Luke 2:32) 
A light for revelation to the Gentiles, and the glory of Your people Israel.”

(Luke 2:33) 
And his father and mother were marveling at the things spoken concerning Him.

(Luke 2:34) 
And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary His mother, “Behold, this Child is destined for the fall and rising of many in Israel, and for a sign which will be spoken against

(Luke 2:35) 
and a sword will pierce through your own soul also, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed.”

(Luke 2:36) 
And there was a prophetess, Anna, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was advanced in years, having lived with her husband seven years from her virginity,

(Luke 2:37) 
and then as a widow until she was eighty-four years old. She did not depart from the temple, serving God with fastings and prayers night and day.

(Luke 2:38) 
And coming up at that very hour, she gave thanks to God and spoke of Him to all those who were looking for the redemption of Jerusalem.

(Luke 2:39) 
And when they had performed everything according to the Law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee, to their own city of Nazareth.

(Luke 2:40) 
And the Child continued to grow and become strong, filled with wisdom, and the favor of God was upon Him.

(Luke 2:41) 
Now His parents went to Jerusalem every year at the Feast of the Passover.

(Luke 2:42) 
And when He was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem according to the custom of the Feast,

(Luke 2:43) 
and as they were returning, after spending the full number of days, the boy Jesus remained in Jerusalem, but His parents did not know it.

(Luke 2:44) 
Assuming Him to be in the caravan, they went a day’s journey, and they began looking for Him among their relatives and acquaintances.

(Luke 2:45) 
When they did not find Him, they returned to Jerusalem, looking for Him.

(Luke 2:46) 
After three days they found Him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers, both listening to them and asking them questions.

(Luke 2:47) 
And all who heard Him were amazed at His understanding and His answers.

(Luke 2:48) 
When they saw Him, they were astonished; and His mother said to Him, “Son, why have You treated us like this? Behold, Your father and I have been anxiously looking for You.”

(Luke 2:49) 
And He said to them, “Why were you looking for Me? Did you not know that I must be about My Father’s business?”

(Luke 2:50) 
But they did not understand the statement which He spoke to them.

(Luke 2:51) 
And He went down with them and came to Nazareth, and was subject to them, and His mother kept all these things in her heart.

(Luke 2:52) 
And Jesus kept increasing in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and men.

(Luke 3:1) 
In the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, when Pontius Pilate was governing Judea, Herod was tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip was tetrarch of Ituraea and the region of Trachonitis, and Lysanias was tetrarch of Abilene,

(Luke 3:2) 
during the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of the Lord came to John, the son of Zechariah, in the desert.

(Luke 3:3) 
And he went into all the country around the Jordan, preaching the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins.

(Luke 3:4) 
As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet: "The voice of one crying in the desert: 'Prepare the way of the Lord, make straight his paths.'

(Luke 3:5) 
'Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be brought low: and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough ways shall be made smooth.'

(Luke 3:6) 
'And all flesh shall see the salvation of God.'

(Luke 3:7) 
He therefore said to the crowds that went out to be baptized by him: "Offspring of vipers, who has shown you how to flee from the wrath to come?

(Luke 3:8) 
Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance; and do not begin to say, 'We have Abraham for our father.' For I tell you that God is able, even from these stones, to raise up children to Abraham.

(Luke 3:9) 
For now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not produce good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.

(Luke 3:10) 
And the crowds were questioning him, saying: "What then should we do?

(Luke 3:11) 
And he answering, said to them: "He that has two coats, let him give to him that has none; and he that has food, let him do in like manner.

(Luke 3:12) 
And the publicans also came to be baptized; and they said to him: "Master, what shall we do?

(Luke 3:13) 
But he said to them: "Do nothing more than that which is appointed to you.

(Luke 3:14) 
And the soldiers also questioned him, saying: "And we, what shall we do?" And he said to them: "Do violence to no one, nor accuse anyone falsely; and be content with your pay.

(Luke 3:15) 
Now as the people were in expectation, and all were thinking in their hearts of John, if perhaps he were Christ,

(Luke 3:16) 
John, answering, said to them all: "I indeed baptize you with water; but there shall come one mightier than I, the strap of whose shoes I am not worthy to loose: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire.

(Luke 3:17) 
Whose fan is in his hand, and he will purge his floor, and will gather the wheat into his granary; but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire.

(Luke 3:18) 
And many other things, exhorting, he preached to the people.

(Luke 3:19) 
But Herod the tetrarch, when he was reproved by him for Herodias his brother's wife, and for all the evils that Herod had done,

(Luke 3:20) 
added this also above all, and shut up John in prison.

(Luke 3:21) 
Now it came to pass, when all the people were baptized, that Jesus also being baptized and praying, heaven was opened;

(Luke 3:22) 
And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape, as a dove upon him; and a voice came from heaven: "Thou art my beloved Son; in thee I am well pleased.

(Luke 3:23) 
And Jesus himself was beginning about thirty years old, being (as was supposed) the son of Joseph, who was of Heli,

(Luke 3:24) 
who was of Matthath, who was of Levi, who was of Melchi, who was of Janna, who was of Joseph,

(Luke 3:25) 
who was of Mattathias, who was of Amos, who was of Nahum, who was of Esli, who was of Naggae,

(Luke 3:26) 
who was of Maath, who was of Mattathias, who was of Semei, who was of Josech, who was of Joda,

(Luke 3:27) 
who was of Joannan, who was of Rhesa, who was of Zorobabel, who was of Salaathiel, who was of Neri,

(Luke 3:28) 
who was of Melchi, who was of Addi, who was of Chosam, who was of Elmodam, who was of Her,

(Luke 3:29) 
who was of Jose, who was of Eliezer, who was of Jorim, who was of Matthath, who was of Levi,

(Luke 3:30) 
who was of Simeon, who was of Juda, who was of Joseph, who was of Jona, who was of Eliachim,

(Luke 3:31) 
who was of Melea, who was of Menna, who was of Matthata, who was of Nathan, who was of David,

(Luke 3:32) 
who was of Isai, who was of Obed, who was of Booz, who was of Sela, who was of Aram,

(Luke 3:33) 
who was of Aminadab, who was of Admin, who was of Arni, who was of Esrom, who was of Phares, who was of Juda,

(Luke 3:34) 
who was of Jacob, who was of Isaac, who was of Abraham, who was of Thare, who was of Nachor,

(Luke 3:35) 
who was of Seruch, who was of Ragau, who was of Phalec, who was of Heber, who was of Sale,

(Luke 3:36) 
who was of Cainan, who was of Arphaxad, who was of Sem, who was of Noe, who was of Lamech,

(Luke 3:37) 
who was of Matusala, who was of Enoch, who was of Jared, who was of Malaleel, who was of Cainan,

(Luke 3:38) 
who was of Enos, who was of Seth, who was of Adam, who was of God.

(Luke 4:1) 
Filled with the Holy Spirit, Jesus returned from the Jordan, and was led by the Spirit into the desert.

(Luke 4:2) 
There, He was tested by the Devil for forty days. And during those days, He ate nothing. When those days were over, He was hungry.

(Luke 4:3) 
The Devil said to Him, "If you are the Son of God, tell this stone to become bread."

(Luke 4:4) 
Jesus answered him, "It is written: ‘Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God.’"

(Luke 4:5) 
Then the Devil led Him up and showed Him all the kingdoms of the world in an instant.

(Luke 4:6) 
And the Devil said to Him, "To you I will give all this power and their glory, because it has been given to me, and I give it to whomever I wish."

(Luke 4:7) 
If you worship me, then all shall be yours."

(Luke 4:8) 
Jesus answered him, "It is written: ‘You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only shall you serve.’"

(Luke 4:9) 
Then he brought Him to Jerusalem and placed Him on the highest part of the Temple, and said to Him, "If you are the Son of God, throw Yourself down from here;

(Luke 4:10) 
for it is written, ‘He will command His angels concerning you, to guard you;’

(Luke 4:11) 
and ‘On their hands they will bear you up, lest at any time you dash your foot against a stone.’"

(Luke 4:12) 
And Jesus answering, said to him, "It is said: ‘You shall not tempt the Lord your God.’"

(Luke 4:13) 
When the Devil had finished every temptation, he departed from Him for a time.

(Luke 4:14) 
Then Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee, and news about Him went out through all the surrounding region.

(Luke 4:15) 
And He taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all.

(Luke 4:16) 
He came to Nazareth, where He had been brought up. And, as was His custom, He went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up to read.

(Luke 4:17) 
And the book of the prophet Isaiah was handed to Him. When He had opened the book, He found the place where it was written:

(Luke 4:18) 
“The Spirit of the Lord is upon Me, because He has anointed Me to preach the Gospel to the poor; He has sent Me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovery of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed,

(Luke 4:19) 
to preach the acceptable year of the Lord."

(Luke 4:20) 
Then He closed the book, and gave it back to the attendant and sat down. The eyes of all those in the synagogue were fixed on Him.

(Luke 4:21) 
And He began to say to them, “Today this Scripture is fulfilled in your hearing.”

(Luke 4:22) 
And all bore witness to Him and marveled at the gracious words that proceeded out of His mouth. And they said, “Is this not the son of Joseph?”

(Luke 4:23) 
And He said to them, "You will surely quote this proverb to Me: ‘Physician, heal yourself! Whatever we have heard done in Capernaum, do also here in Your country.’"

(Luke 4:24) 
And He said, "Truly I say to you, no prophet is accepted in his own country.

(Luke 4:25) 
But I tell you truly, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the sky was shut up for three years and six months, and when great famine was throughout all the land;

(Luke 4:26) 
and Elijah was sent to none of them except to Zarephath, in the land of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow.

(Luke 4:27) 
And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet, and none of them were cleansed except Naaman the Syrian."

(Luke 4:28) 
And all those in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with wrath.

(Luke 4:29) 
Then they rose up and thrust Him out of the city, and led Him to the brow of the hill on which their city was built, that they might throw Him down headlong.

(Luke 4:30) 
But He, passing through their midst, went His way.

(Luke 4:31) 
Then He went down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and was teaching them on the Sabbath.

(Luke 4:32) 
And they were astonished at His teaching, for His word was with authority.

(Luke 4:33) 
Now in the synagogue there was a man who had a spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a loud voice,

(Luke 4:34) 
saying, “Let us alone! What have we to do with You, Jesus of Nazareth? Have You come to destroy us? I know You, who You are—the Holy One of God!”

(Luke 4:35) 
But Jesus rebuked him, saying, “Be quiet, and come out of him!” And when the demon had thrown him down in their midst, it came out of him, without hurting him.

(Luke 4:36) 
Then they were all amazed, and they spoke among themselves, saying, “What is this word? For with authority and power He commands the unclean spirits, and they come out.”

(Luke 4:37) 
And the report about Him went out into every place in the surrounding region.

(Luke 4:38) 
Then He arose from the synagogue and entered Simon’s house. Now Simon’s wife’s mother was ill with a high fever, and they made request of Him concerning her.

(Luke 4:39) 
So He stood over her and rebuked the fever, and it left her. And immediately she arose and served them.

(Luke 4:40) 
When the sun was setting, all those who had any that were sick with various diseases brought them to Him. And He laid His hands on every one of them and healed them.

(Luke 4:41) 
And demons also came out of many, crying out and saying, “You are the Son of God!” And rebuking them, He did not allow them to speak, because they knew that He was the Christ.

(Luke 4:42) 
Now when day came, He departed and went into a desolate place. And the crowds were looking for Him, and came to Him, and tried to keep Him from going away from them;

(Luke 4:43) 
but He said to them, “I must preach the kingdom of God to the other cities also, because for this reason I have been sent."

(Luke 4:44) 
And He was preaching in the synagogues of Galilee.

(Luke 5:1) 
It came to pass that when the crowds pressed in on Him, wanting to hear the Word of God, He was standing by the lake of Gennesaret.

(Luke 5:2) 
He saw two boats standing by the lake, but the fishermen had left them and were washing their nets.

(Luke 5:3) 
And He, entering into one of the boats, which was Simon's, asked him to move the boat a little from the land. And, sitting down, He taught the crowds from the boat.

(Luke 5:4) 
When He had finished speaking, He said to Simon, “Launch out into the deep, and let down your nets for a catch.”

(Luke 5:5) 
And Simon answering, said to Him: “Master, we have toiled all night and taken nothing; but at your word, I will let down the net.”

(Luke 5:6) 
And when they had done this, they enclosed a great multitude of fish, and their nets were breaking.

(Luke 5:7) 
And they beckoned to their partners in the other boat to come and help them. And they came and filled both boats, so that they were almost sinking.

(Luke 5:8) 
Which when Simon Peter saw, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying: “Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord.”

(Luke 5:9) 
For he was astonished, and all who were with him, at the catch of the fish that they had taken.

(Luke 5:10) 
And so also James and John, the sons of Zebedee, who were Simon's partners. And Jesus said to Simon, “Do not fear; from now on you will be catching men.”

(Luke 5:11) 
And when they had brought the boats to land, they left everything and followed Him.

(Luke 5:12) 
And it came to pass that when He was in one of the cities, behold, a man full of leprosy; and seeing Jesus, he fell on his face and besought Him, saying: “Lord, if You will, You can make me clean.”

(Luke 5:13) 
And extending His hand, He touched him, saying: “I will; be clean.” And immediately the leprosy left him.

(Luke 5:14) 
And He charged him to tell no one, but “Go, show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing as Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.”

(Luke 5:15) 
But so much the more the report about Him spread, and great multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed of their infirmities.

(Luke 5:16) 
But He was withdrawing to the deserts and praying.

(Luke 5:17) 
And it came to pass on one of those days, that He was teaching, and there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by, who had come out of every town of Galilee and Judea and Jerusalem; and the power of the Lord was present to heal them.

(Luke 5:18) 
And behold, men were carrying a man on a bed who was paralyzed; and they were seeking to bring him in and to set him before Him.

(Luke 5:19) 
And not finding by what way they might bring him in because of the crowd, they went upon the housetop, and let him down with the bed through the tiles into the midst before Jesus.

(Luke 5:20) 
When He saw their faith, He said: “Man, your sins are forgiven you.”

(Luke 5:21) 
And the scribes and the Pharisees began to question, saying: “Who is this that speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but God alone?”

(Luke 5:22) 
But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, answering, said to them: “What do you question in your hearts?

(Luke 5:23) 
Which is easier, to say: ‘Your sins are forgiven you,’ or to say: ‘Rise and walk’?

(Luke 5:24) 
But that you may know that the Son of Man has the power on earth to forgive sins, He said to the paralytic: “I say to you, arise, take up your bed, and go to your house.”

(Luke 5:25) 
And immediately rising up before them, and taking up the bed on which he was lying, he went to his own house, glorifying God.

(Luke 5:26) 
And amazement took hold of all, and they glorified God; and they were filled with fear, saying: “We have seen wonderful things today.”

(Luke 5:27) 
And after these things, He went out and saw a tax collector named Levi sitting at the tax office, and He said to him: “Follow Me.”

(Luke 5:28) 
And leaving everything, he arose and followed Him.

(Luke 5:29) 
And Levi made Him a great feast in his own house; and there was a large crowd of tax collectors and others who were reclining with them.

(Luke 5:30) 
And the Pharisees and their scribes murmured against His disciples, saying: “Why do you eat and drink with the tax collectors and sinners?”

(Luke 5:31) 
And Jesus answering, said to them: “Those who are well do not need a physician, but those who are sick.”

(Luke 5:32) 
“I have not come to call the just, but sinners to repentance.”

(Luke 5:33) 
And they said to Him: “The disciples of John fast often and make supplications; likewise, the Pharisees do; but Yours eat and drink.”

(Luke 5:34) 
To whom Jesus said: “Can you make the sons of the bridegroom fast while the bridegroom is with them?

(Luke 5:35) 
“But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them; then they will fast in those days.”

(Luke 5:36) 
He spoke also a parable to them: “No one puts a piece from a new garment onto an old garment; otherwise, the new will tear, and the piece from the new will not match the old.”

(Luke 5:37) 
“And no one puts new wine into old wineskins; otherwise, the new wine will burst the wineskins, and it will be spilled, and the wineskins will be ruined.

(Luke 5:38) 
“But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins; then both are preserved.”

(Luke 5:39) 
And no one, drinking the old, wants the new immediately; for he says, ‘The old is better.’”

(Luke 6:1) 
One Sabbath day, Jesus went out through a field of grain. His disciples began to pluck some heads of grain, rubbing them in their hands.

(Luke 6:2) 
Some Pharisees said, “Why are you doing things that are not allowed on the Sabbath?”

(Luke 6:3) 
Jesus answered, “Haven’t you read about how David and those who were with him did when they were hungry?

(Luke 6:4) 
He went into God’s house, and took the bread offered to God, and ate it, and gave it to his companions. He was not permitted to eat this bread because it was only for the priests.

(Luke 6:5) 
Then He told them, “The Son of Man is Lord, even of the Sabbath.”

(Luke 6:6) 
On another Sabbath, Jesus entered the synagogue and began to teach. There was a man there whose right hand was shriveled.

(Luke 6:7) 
The scribes and the Pharisees watched Him closely to see if He would heal on the Sabbath, so they could accuse Him.

(Luke 6:8) 
Jesus knew what they were thinking. He said to the man with the shriveled hand, “Get up and stand in the middle.” He got up and stood there.

(Luke 6:9) 
Jesus then said to them, “I ask you, is it lawful to do good on the Sabbath, or to do evil? To save a life, or to destroy it?”

(Luke 6:10) 
Then He looked around at everyone. He said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” The man did so, and his hand was restored.

(Luke 6:11) 
But they were filled with rage, and began to talk about what they should do to Jesus.

(Luke 6:12) 
In these days, Jesus went out to the mountain to pray, and He spent the night in prayer to God.

(Luke 6:13) 
When the sun rose, He called His disciples and chose twelve of them, whom He also named Apostles.

(Luke 6:14) 
Simon, whom He named Peter, and Andrew, his brother; James and John, Philip and Bartholomew,

(Luke 6:15) 
Matthew and Thomas; James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon, who is called the Zealot,

(Luke 6:16) 
Judas the son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who was a traitor.

(Luke 6:17) 
He came down with them and stood on a level place, and a large crowd of His disciples, and a great multitude of people from all Judea and Jerusalem, and the seacoast of Tyre and Sidon.

(Luke 6:18) 
They had come to hear Him and be healed of their diseases. Those tormented by evil spirits were cured.

(Luke 6:19) 
And all the crowd were trying to touch Him, because power was coming from Him that was healing everyone.

(Luke 6:20) 
Then Jesus looked at His disciples and said: “Blessed are you who are poor, because yours is the kingdom of God.

(Luke 6:21) 
Blessed are you who hunger now, because you will be filled. Blessed are you who weep now, because you will laugh.

(Luke 6:22) 
Blessed are you when people hate you, and when they exclude you and revile you, and reject your name as evil, on account of the Son of Man.

(Luke 6:23) 
Rejoice on that day and leap for joy, because your reward is great in the universe. Their ancestors treated the prophets in the same way.

(Luke 6:24) 
But woe to you who are rich, because you have received your consolation.

(Luke 6:25) 
Woe to you who are full now, because you will be hungry. Woe to you who laugh now, because you will mourn and weep.

(Luke 6:26) 
Woe to you when all speak well of you, for their ancestors treated the false prophets in the same way.

(Luke 6:27) 
But I say to you who hear: Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you.

(Luke 6:28) 
Bless those who curse you, and pray for those who mistreat you.

(Luke 6:29) 
To the one who strikes you on the cheek, offer the other also. From the one who takes away your cloak, do not withhold your tunic either.

(Luke 6:30) 
Give to everyone who asks you, and do not ask for your belongings back from the one who takes them away.

(Luke 6:31) 
And as you want people to do to you, do the same to them.

(Luke 6:32) 
If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? Even sinners love those who love them.

(Luke 6:33) 
If you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? Even sinners do that.

(Luke 6:34) 
And if you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners to get back the same amount.

(Luke 6:35) 
But love your enemies, do good, and lend, expecting nothing in return. Your reward will be great, and you will be children of the Most High, for He is kind to the ungrateful and the wicked.

(Luke 6:36) 
Be merciful, just as your Father is merciful.

(Luke 6:37) 
Do not judge, and you will not be judged. Do not condemn, and you will not be condemned. Forgive, and you will be forgiven.

(Luke 6:38) 
Give, and it will be given to you. A good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and overflowing, will be poured into your lap. For with the measure you use, it will be measured to you.”

(Luke 6:39) 
He also told them this parable: “Can a blind man lead a blind man? Will they not both fall into a pit?

(Luke 6:40) 
A disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone who is fully trained will be like their teacher.

(Luke 6:41) 
Why do you see the speck that is in your brother’s eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye?

(Luke 6:42) 
Or how can you say to your brother, ‘Brother, let me remove the speck from your eye,’ when you yourself do not see the log in your own eye? You hypocrite, first remove the log from your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck that is in your brother’s eye.

(Luke 6:43) 
For no good tree produces bad fruit, nor does a bad tree produce good fruit.

(Luke 6:44) 
Each tree is known by its own fruit. For figs are not gathered from thorns, nor are grapes picked from a bramble bush.

(Luke 6:45) 
The good person brings forth good things from the good treasury of his heart, and the evil person brings forth evil things from the evil treasury. For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.

(Luke 6:46) 
“Why do you call me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ and do not do what I say?

(Luke 6:47) 
I will show you what someone is like who comes to me and hears my words and acts on them.

(Luke 6:48) 
That person is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid the foundation on the rock. When a flood came, the river beat against that house, but it could not shake it, because it was well built.

(Luke 6:49) 
But the one who hears and does not act is like a man who built a house on the ground without a foundation. When the river beat against it, the house immediately fell, and the ruin of that house was great.”

(Luke 7:1) 
When Jesus finished speaking to the people, he went into Capernaum.

(Luke 7:2) 
A centurion's servant was very ill and near death—he was very dear to the centurion.

(Luke 7:3) 
When he heard about Jesus, he sent elders of the Jews to beg him to come and heal his servant.

(Luke 7:4) 
When they came to Jesus, they earnestly pleaded with him, saying, “This man deserves your help,

(Luke 7:5) 
because he loves our people, and he built our synagogue.”

(Luke 7:6) 
So Jesus went with them. And when he was not far from the house, the centurion sent friends, saying, “Lord, do not trouble yourself, for I am not worthy to have you enter my home,

(Luke 7:7) 
and that is why I did not even consider myself worthy to come to you. Just give the order, and my servant will be healed.

(Luke 7:8) 
For I myself am a man subject to authority, with soldiers subject to me. I tell this one, ‘Go,’ and he goes; and another, ‘Come,’ and he comes; and to my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.”

(Luke 7:9) 
When Jesus heard this, he was amazed and said to the crowd following him, “I tell you, I have not found such faith even in Israel.”

(Luke 7:10) 
And when those who had been sent returned to the house, they found the servant well.

(Luke 7:11) 
Soon afterward, Jesus went to a town called Nain, and his disciples and a large crowd went along with him.

(Luke 7:12) 
As he approached the gate of the town, a dead man was being carried out—the only son of his mother, and she was a widow. A large crowd from the town was with her.

(Luke 7:13) 
When the Lord saw her, his heart went out to her, and he said, “Do not weep.”

(Luke 7:14) 
Then he went up and touched the coffin, and the bearers stood still. He said, “Young man, I say to you, get up!”

(Luke 7:15) 
The dead man sat up and began to speak, and Jesus gave him to his mother.

(Luke 7:16) 
Fear seized them all, and they glorified God, saying, “A great prophet has appeared among us!” and, “God has come to help his people.”

(Luke 7:17) 
This news about him spread throughout Judea and the surrounding area.

(Luke 7:18) 
John’s disciples told him about all these things.

(Luke 7:19) 
Calling two of his disciples, John sent them to the Lord to ask, “Are you the one who is to come, or should we expect someone else?”

(Luke 7:20) 
When the men came to Jesus, they said, “John the Baptist sent us to you to ask, ‘Are you the one who is to come, or should we expect someone else?’”

(Luke 7:21) 
At that very time Jesus cured many who were sick with various diseases, and he cast out many demons; and he granted sight to many who were blind.

(Luke 7:22) 
So he replied to the messengers, “Go back and report to John what you have seen and heard: The blind receive sight, the lame walk, those with leprosy are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the good news is proclaimed to the poor.

(Luke 7:23) 
Blessed is anyone who does not stumble on account of me.”

(Luke 7:24) 
After John’s messengers left, Jesus began to speak to the crowd concerning John: “What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed swayed by the wind?

(Luke 7:25) 
If not, what did you go out to see? A man dressed in fine clothes? Those who wear expensive clothes and indulge in luxury are in royal palaces.

(Luke 7:26) 
But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.

(Luke 7:27) 
This is the one about whom it is written: ‘I will send my messenger ahead of you, who will prepare your way before you.’

(Luke 7:28) 
I tell you, among those born of women, there is no one greater than John; yet the one who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.”

(Luke 7:29) 
All the people, even the tax collectors, when they heard this, acknowledged that God was in the right, because they had been baptized with John’s baptism.

(Luke 7:30) 
But the Pharisees and the experts in the law rejected God’s purpose for themselves, because they had not been baptized by John.

(Luke 7:31) 
To what, then, can I compare the people of this generation? What are they like?

(Luke 7:32) 
They are like children sitting in the marketplace and calling out to each other: ‘We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we sang a dirge, and you did not mourn.’

(Luke 7:33) 
For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say, ‘He has a demon.’

(Luke 7:34) 
The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and you say, ‘Here is a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners.’

(Luke 7:35) 
But wisdom is proved right by all her children.”

(Luke 7:36) 
Now one of the Pharisees invited Jesus to have dinner with him, so he went to the Pharisee’s house and reclined at the table.

(Luke 7:37) 
A woman in that town who lived a sinful life learned that Jesus was eating at the Pharisee’s house, so she came with a jar of expensive perfume.

(Luke 7:38) 
As she stood behind him at his feet weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears. Then she wiped them with her hair, kissed them and poured perfume on them.

(Luke 7:39) 
When the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself, “If this man were a prophet, he would know who is touching him and what kind of woman she is—that she is a sinner.”

(Luke 7:40) 
Jesus answered him, “Simon, I have something to tell you.” “Tell me, teacher,” he said.

(Luke 7:41) 
“Two people owed money to a certain money lender. One owed him five hundred denarii, and the other fifty.

(Luke 7:42) 
Neither of them could pay him back, so he forgave the debts of both. Now which of them will love him more?”

(Luke 7:43) 
Simon replied, “I suppose the one who had the bigger debt forgiven.” “You have judged correctly,” Jesus said.

(Luke 7:44) 
Then he turned toward the woman and said to Simon, “Do you see this woman? I came into your house. You did not give me any water for my feet, but she wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair.

(Luke 7:45) 
You did not give me a kiss, but this woman, since the time I came in, has not ceased to kiss my feet.

(Luke 7:46) 
You did not put oil on my head, but she has poured perfume on my feet.

(Luke 7:47) 
Therefore, I tell you, her many sins have been forgiven—as her great love has shown. But whoever has been forgiven little loves little.”

(Luke 7:48) 
Then Jesus said to her, “Your sins are forgiven.”

(Luke 7:49) 
The other guests began to say among themselves, “Who is this who even forgives sins?”

(Luke 7:50) 
Jesus said to the woman, “Your faith has saved you; go in peace.”

(Luke 8:1) 
After this, Jesus Christ traveled through the cities and villages, preaching and proclaiming the Kingdom of God; and the twelve apostles were with Him,

(Luke 8:2) 
and some women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities: Mary, who is called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out,

(Luke 8:3) 
and Joanna the wife of Chusa, Herod’s steward, and Susanna, and many others, who provided for them from their resources.

(Luke 8:4) 
And when a very large crowd was gathering, and people were coming to Him from every city, He said this parable:

(Luke 8:5) 
“A sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some fell beside the way and was trodden down, and the birds of the sky ate it up.

(Luke 8:6) 
“And some fell on the rock; and as soon as it sprang up, it withered away because it had no moisture.

(Luke 8:7) 
“And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprang up with it and choked it.

(Luke 8:8) 
“And some fell on the good ground, and sprang up, and produced a hundredfold.” As He said these things, He called out, “He who has ears to hear, let him hear.”

(Luke 8:9) 
Then His disciples asked Him what this parable meant.

(Luke 8:10) 
And He said, “To you it has been given to know the mystery of the Kingdom of God; but to the rest, it is in parables, so that seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand.

(Luke 8:11) 
“Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.

(Luke 8:12) 
“Those by the way are those who hear; then the devil comes and takes away the word from their heart, so that they may not believe and be saved.

(Luke 8:13) 
“Those on the rock are those who, when they hear, receive the word with joy; and these have no root, who believe for a while and in time of temptation fall away.

(Luke 8:14) 
“And what fell among the thorns are those who have heard, and as they go, are choked by the cares and riches and pleasures of life, and they do not bear fruit.

(Luke 8:15) 
“But what fell on the good ground are those who, in a good and honest heart, having heard the word, keep it and bear fruit with patience.

(Luke 8:16) 
“No one, when he has lit a lamp, covers it with a vessel or puts it under a bed, but puts it on a lampstand, so that those who enter may see the light.

(Luke 8:17) 
“For nothing is hidden that will not be made manifest, nor is anything secret that will not be known and come to light.

(Luke 8:18) 
“Take heed therefore how you hear. For whoever has, to him more will be given; and whoever does not have, even what he thinks he has will be taken away from him.”

(Luke 8:19) 
Then His mother and brothers came to Him, but they could not get to Him because of the crowd.

(Luke 8:20) 
And it was told Him, “Your mother and Your brothers are standing outside, desiring to see You.”

(Luke 8:21) 
But He answered and said to them, “My mother and My brothers are these who hear the word of God and do it.”

(Luke 8:22) 
Now it happened on a certain day that He got into a boat with His disciples, and He said to them, “Let us cross over to the other side of the lake.” And they launched out.

(Luke 8:23) 
But as they sailed, He fell asleep; and a tempest of wind descended on the lake, and they were filling with water, and were in jeopardy.

(Luke 8:24) 
And they came to Him and awoke Him, saying, “Master, Master, we are perishing!” Then He arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water, and they ceased, and there was a calm.

(Luke 8:25) 
But He said to them, “Where is your faith?” And they, afraid, marveled, saying to one another, “Who can this be? For He commands even the winds and water, and they obey Him!”

(Luke 8:26) 
Then they sailed to the country of the Gerasenes, which is opposite Galilee.

(Luke 8:27) 
And when He stepped out on the land, there met Him a certain man from the city who had demons for a long time. He was not wearing clothes, nor did he live in a house, but in the tombs.

(Luke 8:28) 
When he saw Jesus, he cried out, and fell down before Him, and with a loud voice said, “What have I to do with You, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beg You, do not torment me!”

(Luke 8:29) 
For He had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. For often it had seized him, and he was kept under guard, bound with chains and shackles; and breaking the bonds, he was driven by the demon into the wilderness.

(Luke 8:30) 
Jesus asked him, saying, “What is your name?” And he said, “Legion,” because many demons had entered him.

(Luke 8:31) 
And they begged Him that He would not command them to go out into the abyss.

(Luke 8:32) 
Now a herd of many swine was feeding there on the mountain. And they begged Him that He would permit them to enter them. And He permitted them.

(Luke 8:33) 
Then the demons went out of the man and entered the swine, and the herd ran violently down the steep place into the lake and were drowned.

(Luke 8:34) 
When those who fed them saw what had happened, they fled and told it in the city and in the country.

(Luke 8:35) 
Then they went out to see what had happened, and came to Jesus, and found the man from whom the demons had departed, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in his right mind. And they were afraid.

(Luke 8:36) 
And those who had seen it told them how he who had been demon-possessed was healed.

(Luke 8:37) 
Then the whole multitude of the region of the Gerasenes asked Him to depart from them, for they were seized with great fear. And He got into a boat and returned.

(Luke 8:38) 
Now the man from whom the demons had departed begged Him that he might be with Him. But Jesus sent him away, saying,

(Luke 8:39) 
“Return to your own house, and tell what great things God has done for you.” And he went his way, proclaiming throughout the whole city what great things Jesus had done for him.

(Luke 8:40) 
Now it was, when Jesus returned, that the multitude welcomed Him, for they were all waiting for Him.

(Luke 8:41) 
And behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue. And he fell down at Jesus’ feet and begged Him to come to his house,

(Luke 8:42) 
for he had an only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she was dying. But as He went, the multitudes thronged Him.

(Luke 8:43) 
Now a woman, having a flow of blood for twelve years, who had spent all her livelihood on physicians and could not be healed by anyone,

(Luke 8:44) 
came behind Him and touched the border of His garment. And immediately her flow of blood stopped.

(Luke 8:45) 
And Jesus said, “Who touched Me?” When all denied it, Peter and those with him said, “Master, the multitudes throng and press You, and You say, ‘Who touched Me?’

(Luke 8:46) 
But Jesus said, “Someone touched Me, for I perceived power going out from Me.”

(Luke 8:47) 
Now when the woman saw that she was not hidden, she came trembling; and falling down before Him, she declared to Him in the presence of all the people the reason she had touched Him and how she was healed immediately.

(Luke 8:48) 
And He said to her, “Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace.”

(Luke 8:49) 
While He was still speaking, someone came from the ruler of the synagogue’s house, saying to him, “Your daughter is dead. Do not trouble the Teacher.”

(Luke 8:50) 
But when Jesus heard it, He answered him, saying, “Do not be afraid; only believe, and she will be made well.”

(Luke 8:51) 
When He came to the house, He permitted no one to enter except Peter, James, and John, and the father and mother of the girl.

(Luke 8:52) 
Now all were weeping and mourning for her; but He said, “Do not weep; she is not dead, but sleeping.”

(Luke 8:53) 
And they ridiculed Him, knowing that she was dead.

(Luke 8:54) 
But He, taking her by the hand, called out, saying, “Little girl, arise.”

(Luke 8:55) 
Then her spirit returned, and she arose immediately. And He commanded that she be given something to eat.

(Luke 8:56) 
And her parents were astonished, but He commanded them to tell no one what had happened.

(Luke 9:1) 
Then, collecting the twelve Apostles, He gave them power and authority over all demons, to heal sicknesses.

(Luke 9:2) 
And He sent them to preach the Kingdom of God, and to heal the sick.

(Luke 9:3) 
And He said to them: "Take nothing for the journey, neither staff, nor wallet, nor bread, nor money; and do not have two tunics.

(Luke 9:4) 
And into whatsoever house you shall enter, there abide, and do not depart from there.

(Luke 9:5) 
And whosoever will not receive you, going out of that city, shake off even the dust from your feet for a testimony against them."

(Luke 9:6) 
Going forth, they went about through the towns, preaching the Gospel and healing everywhere.

(Luke 9:7) 
Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all things that were done by Him. And he was in doubt, because it was said by some that John was risen from the dead;

(Luke 9:8) 
but by some, that Elias had appeared; and by others, that one of the prophets of old was risen again.

(Luke 9:9) 
And Herod said: "John I have beheaded; but who is this, of whom I hear such things?" And he sought to see Him.

(Luke 9:10) 
And the Apostles, when they were returned, told Him all they had done. And taking them, He went aside into a desert place, which is called Bethsaida.

(Luke 9:11) 
And when the crowds knew it, they followed Him; and He welcomed them and spoke to them of the Kingdom of God and healed those who had need of healing.

(Luke 9:12) 
But the day began to decline. And the twelve came and said to Him: "Send away the crowds, that they may go into the towns and the villages around, and lodge, and find provisions, for here we are in a desert place."

(Luke 9:13) 
But He said to them: "Give them to eat." And they said: "We have no more than five loaves and two fish, unless perhaps we go and buy food for all these people."

(Luke 9:14) 
For there were about five thousand men. And He said to His disciples: "Make them sit down by fifties in a company."

(Luke 9:15) 
And they did so, and made them all sit down.

(Luke 9:16) 
And taking the five loaves and the two fish, He looked up to heaven and blessed them; and He broke them and gave to the disciples to set before the multitude.

(Luke 9:17) 
And they all ate and were filled. And there were taken up what remained to them of fragments, twelve baskets.

(Luke 9:18) 
And it came to pass, as He was alone praying, that His disciples were with Him; and He asked them, saying: "Whom do the people say that I am?"

(Luke 9:19) 
But they answering, said: "John the Baptist"; and others say: "Elias"; and others: "That one of the former prophets has risen again."

(Luke 9:20) 
Then He said to them: "But whom do you say that I am?" Peter answering, said: "The Christ of God."

(Luke 9:21) 
But He strictly charged and commanded them to tell this to no one.

(Luke 9:22) 
Saying: "The Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed and rise again on the third day."

(Luke 9:23) 
And He said to all: "If anyone wishes to come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross every day, and follow Me.

(Luke 9:24) 
For whosoever will save his life, shall lose it; but he who shall lose his life for My sake, shall save it.

(Luke 9:25) 
For what does it profit a man, if he gain the whole world, but lose himself, and suffer harm?

(Luke 9:26) 
For whosoever shall be ashamed of Me and of My words, of him the Son of Man will be ashamed, when He shall come in His majesty and that of the Father and of the holy angels.

(Luke 9:27) 
And I tell you truly, there are some of those standing here who will not taste death, until they see the kingdom of God."

(Luke 9:28) 
And it came to pass after these words, that He took Peter and John and James and went up the mountain to pray.

(Luke 9:29) 
And it came to pass, as He was praying, that the appearance of His face was altered, and His clothing became white and shining.

(Luke 9:30) 
And behold, two men were talking with Him. And they were Moses and Elias,

(Luke 9:31) 
who, appearing in glory, were speaking of His decease that He was to accomplish in Jerusalem.

(Luke 9:32) 
Now Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep. And when they were awake, they saw His glory and the two men standing with Him.

(Luke 9:33) 
And it came to pass, as they were departing from Him, Peter said to Jesus: "Master, it is good for us to be here. And let us make three tabernacles, one for You, and one for Moses, and one for Elias," not knowing what he said.

(Luke 9:34) 
And as he was saying these things, there came a cloud and overshadowed them. And they were afraid when they entered into the cloud.

(Luke 9:35) 
And a voice came out of the cloud, saying: "This is My beloved Son; hear Him."

(Luke 9:36) 
And while the voice was made, Jesus was found alone. And they held their peace and told no one in those days any of the things that they had seen.

(Luke 9:37) 
And it came to pass the next day, when they came down from the mountain, that a great crowd met Him.

(Luke 9:38) 
And behold, a man from the crowd cried out, saying: "Master, I beg You, look upon my son, for he is my only child:

(Luke 9:39) 
and behold, a spirit seizes him, and he suddenly cries out and convulses him with foaming, and scarcely departs from him, bruising him.

(Luke 9:40) 
And I begged Your disciples to cast him out, and they could not."

(Luke 9:41) 
And Jesus answering, said: "O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you and suffer you? Bring your son here."

(Luke 9:42) 
And as he was coming, the devil threw him down and tore him. And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit and healed the boy and gave him back to his father.

(Luke 9:43) 
And they were all astonished at the greatness of God. But while all were wondering at all the things that He was doing, He said to His disciples:

(Luke 9:44) 
"Let these words sink down into your ears: For it is destined that the Son of Man shall be delivered into the hands of men."

(Luke 9:45) 
But they did not understand this word; and it was hidden from them, so that they should not perceive it. And they were afraid to ask Him about this word.

(Luke 9:46) 
Then a thought arose in them, which of them should be the greater.

(Luke 9:47) 
But Jesus, seeing the thoughts of their heart, took a child and placed him beside Himself.

(Luke 9:48) 
And He said to them: "Whosoever shall receive this child in My name, receives Me. And whosoever receives Me, receives Him Who sent Me. For he who is the lesser among you all, he is the greater."

(Luke 9:49) 
And John answering, said: "Master, we saw someone casting out demons in Your name, and we forbade him, because he does not follow with us."

(Luke 9:50) 
And Jesus said to him: "Do not forbid him; for he who is not against you is for you."

(Luke 9:51) 
And it came to pass, when the days of His assumption were being fulfilled, that He steadfastly set His face to go to Jerusalem.

(Luke 9:52) 
And He sent messengers before His face; and going in, they entered into a city of the Samaritans, to prepare for Him.

(Luke 9:53) 
And they did not receive Him, because His face was going toward Jerusalem.

(Luke 9:54) 
And when His disciples James and John saw this, they said: "Lord, do You want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them?"

(Luke 9:55) 
And turning, He rebuked them, saying: "You do not know of what spirit you are."

(Luke 9:56) 
The Son of Man came not to destroy souls, but to save them." And they went into another town.

(Luke 9:57) 
And it came to pass, as they were going on the road, that someone said to Him: "I will follow You wherever You go."

(Luke 9:58) 
And Jesus said to him: "The foxes have dens, and the birds of the sky nests; but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay His head."

(Luke 9:59) 
And He said to another: "Follow Me." But he said: "Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father."

(Luke 9:60) 
And Jesus said to him: "Let the dead bury their dead; but you go and announce the Kingdom of God."

(Luke 9:61) 
And another also said: "I will follow You, Lord; but allow me first to bid farewell to those at home."

(Luke 9:62) 
To whom Jesus said: "No one putting his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the Kingdom of God."

(Luke 10:1) 
After these things, the Lord then designated seventy-two others and sent them, two by two, before His face into every city and place where He Himself was about to go.

(Luke 10:2) 
He said, therefore, to them: "The harvest truly is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Pray, therefore, the Lord of the harvest that He send laborers into His harvest."

(Luke 10:3) 
Go; behold, I send you as lambs among wolves.

(Luke 10:4) 
Do not carry a bag, nor a satchel, nor sandals; and salute no one on the way.

(Luke 10:5) 
Into whatsoever house you enter, first say: "Peace be to this house."

(Luke 10:6) 
And if a son of peace is there, your peace will rest upon him; but if not, it will return to you.

(Luke 10:7) 
And remain in the same house, eating and drinking the things that they have, for the laborer is worthy of his hire. Do not go from house to house.

(Luke 10:8) 
And into whatsoever city you enter, and they receive you, eat the things that are set before you:

(Luke 10:9) 
And heal the sick who are in it, and say to them, 'The kingdom of God has come near to you.'

(Luke 10:10) 
But into whatsoever city you enter, and they do not receive you, going out into the streets of the same, say:

(Luke 10:11) 
Even the dust that has stuck to us from your city we wipe off against you; however, know this, that the kingdom of God has come near.

(Luke 10:12) 
I tell you, that it will be more tolerable for the Sodomites in that day, than for that city.

(Luke 10:13) 
Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the powers that have been done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.

(Luke 10:14) 
But it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the judgment, than for you.

(Luke 10:15) 
And you, Capernaum, who are exalted to heaven, will be brought down to hell.

(Luke 10:16) 
He who hears you, hears Me; and he who rejects you, rejects Me; and he who rejects Me, rejects Him who sent Me.

(Luke 10:17) 
And the seventy-two returned with joy, saying: "Lord, even the demons are subject to us in Your name."

(Luke 10:18) 
And He said to them: "I saw Satan like lightning falling from the sky.

(Luke 10:19) 
Behold, I have given you power to tread upon serpents and scorpions, and upon all the power of the enemy; and nothing shall harm you.

(Luke 10:20) 
However, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you; but rejoice more that your names are written in heaven."

(Luke 10:21) 
In that hour, rejoicing in the Spirit, He exclaimed and said: "I confess to You, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that You have hidden these things from the wise and prudent, and revealed them to little ones. Yes, Father, for so it seemed good in Your sight."

(Luke 10:22) 
All things have been delivered to Me by My Father. And no one knows who the Son is except the Father, and who the Father is except the Son, and to whom the Son is willing to reveal Him."

(Luke 10:23) 
And turning to the disciples, He said: "Blessed are the eyes that see what you see.

(Luke 10:24) 
For I tell you that many prophets and kings have desired to see what you see, and have not seen it; and to hear what you hear, and have not heard it."

(Luke 10:25) 
And behold, a certain lawyer stood up, tempting Him, and saying: "Teacher, what must I do to possess eternal life?"

(Luke 10:26) 
And He said to him: "What is written in the Law? How do you read it?"

(Luke 10:27) 
He answering said: "You shall love the Lord your God with your whole heart, and with your whole soul, and with all your strength, and with all your mind; and your neighbor as yourself."

(Luke 10:28) 
And He said to him: "You have answered rightly; do this and you will live."

(Luke 10:29) 
But he, wishing to justify himself, said to Jesus: "And who is my neighbor?"

(Luke 10:30) 
Jesus answering, said: "A certain man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among robbers, who also, having stripped him and inflicted wounds, departed, leaving him half dead.

(Luke 10:31) 
And it happened that a certain priest was going down the same way; and seeing him, he passed by.

(Luke 10:32) 
And likewise a Levite, when he was near the place, and saw him, passed by.

(Luke 10:33) 
But a certain Samaritan, journeying, came near him; and seeing him, he was moved with compassion.

(Luke 10:34) 
And approaching, he bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine; and putting him on his own beast, brought him to an inn, and took care of him.

(Luke 10:35) 
And on the next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper, and said: 'Take care of him; and whatever you spend more, I will repay you when I return.'

(Luke 10:36) 
Which of these three, do you think, was neighbor to him who fell among the robbers?

(Luke 10:37) 
And he said: "He who showed mercy on him." And Jesus said to him: "Go, and do likewise."

(Luke 10:38) 
Now it came to pass, as they went, that He entered a certain village; and a certain woman named Martha received Him into her house.

(Luke 10:39) 
And she had a sister named Mary, who also, sitting beside the feet of the Lord, was listening to His Word.

(Luke 10:40) 
But Martha was occupied about much serving. Who stood and said: "Lord, do You not care that my sister has left me alone to serve? Tell her, therefore, to help me."

(Luke 10:41) 
And the Lord answering, said to her: "Martha, Martha, you are anxious, and you are troubled about many things;

(Luke 10:42) 
but only one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion, which will not be taken away from her."

(Luke 11:1) 
One day, after Jesus had finished praying, one of His disciples said to Him, “Lord, teach us how to pray, just as John taught his disciples.”

(Luke 11:2) 
He said to them, “When you pray, say: 'Father, may Your name be kept holy. May Your kingdom come.'

(Luke 11:3) 
Give us each day the food we need for that day.

(Luke 11:4) 
And forgive us our sins, as we too forgive all who are in debt to us. And do not lead us into temptation.”

(Luke 11:5) 
Then He said to them, “Suppose one of you has a friend, and you go to him at midnight and say, ‘Friend, lend me three loaves of bread,

(Luke 11:6) 
because a friend of mine on a journey has come to me, and I have nothing to set before him?’

(Luke 11:7) 
And he from within will answer, ‘Do not bother me; the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot get up and give you anything.’

(Luke 11:8) 
I tell you, even though he will not get up and give him anything because he is his friend, at least because of his persistence he will get up and give him whatever he needs.

(Luke 11:9) 
So I say to you: Ask, and it will be given to you; search, and you will find; knock, and the door will be opened to you.

(Luke 11:10) 
For everyone who asks receives; everyone who searches finds; and for everyone who knocks, the door will be opened.

(Luke 11:11) 
What father among you, if his son asks for a loaf of bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will he give him a snake instead of a fish?

(Luke 11:12) 
Or if he asks for an egg, will he give him a scorpion?

(Luke 11:13) 
If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask Him!”

(Luke 11:14) 
Jesus was casting out a demon that was mute. When the demon had gone out, the mute person spoke; and the crowds were amazed.

(Luke 11:15) 
But some of them said, “He casts out demons by Beelzebub, the prince of demons.”

(Luke 11:16) 
Others, trying to test Him, asked Him for a sign from heaven.

(Luke 11:17) 
But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said to them, “Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation, and a house divided against a house will fall.

(Luke 11:18) 
And if Satan is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Beelzebub.

(Luke 11:19) 
Now if I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges.

(Luke 11:20) 
But if it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.

(Luke 11:21) 
When a strong man, fully armed, guards his palace, his goods are in peace.

(Luke 11:22) 
But when someone stronger than he attacks him and overpowers him, he takes away his armor in which he trusted and divides his spoils.

(Luke 11:23) 
Whoever is not with Me is against Me, and whoever does not gather with Me scatters.”

(Luke 11:24) 
When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it wanders through arid places looking for rest, and finding none it says, ‘I will return to my house from which I came.’

(Luke 11:25) 
And when it comes, it finds the house swept and put in order.

(Luke 11:26) 
Then it goes and brings seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and live there; and the last state of that person is worse than the first.”

(Luke 11:27) 
As He was saying these things, a woman from the crowd raised her voice and said to Him, “Blessed is the womb that bore You and the breasts that nursed You!”

(Luke 11:28) 
But He said, “Rather, blessed are those who hear the word of God and keep it!”

(Luke 11:29) 
As the crowds were increasing, He began to say, “This generation is an evil generation; it seeks a sign, but no sign will be given to it, except the sign of the prophet Jonah.

(Luke 11:30) 
For just as Jonah was a sign to the people of Nineveh, so will the Son of Man be to this generation.

(Luke 11:31) 
The queen of the South will rise up at the judgment with the people of this generation and condemn them, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and see, something greater than Solomon is here.

(Luke 11:32) 
The men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and see, something greater than Jonah is here.

(Luke 11:33) 
“No one, when they have lit a lamp, puts it in a cellar or under a basket, but on a lampstand, so that those who enter may see the light.

(Luke 11:34) 
The eye is the lamp of the body. When your eye is sound, your whole body is full of light; but when it is bad, your body is full of darkness.

(Luke 11:35) 
Therefore be careful that the light in you is not darkness.

(Luke 11:36) 
If then your whole body is full of light, with no part of it in darkness, it will be wholly bright, as when a lamp with its bright shining gives you light.”

(Luke 11:37) 
While He was speaking, a Pharisee asked Him to dine with him; so He went in and reclined at the table.

(Luke 11:38) 
The Pharisee was surprised to see that He did not wash before dinner.

(Luke 11:39) 
And the Lord said to him, “Now you Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the dish, but inside you are full of greed and wickedness.

(Luke 11:40) 
You fools! Did not the One who made the outside make the inside also?

(Luke 11:41) 
But give as charity the things that are within, and then all things will be clean for you.

(Luke 11:42) 
“But woe to you Pharisees! For you tithe mint and rue and every herb, and you ignore justice and the love of God; these things you should have done, without neglecting the others.

(Luke 11:43) 
Woe to you Pharisees! For you love the best seats in the synagogues and greetings in the marketplaces.

(Luke 11:44) 
Woe to you! For you are like unmarked graves, and people walk over them without knowing it.”

(Luke 11:45) 
Then one of the lawyers answered Him, “Teacher, in saying these things You insult us too.”

(Luke 11:46) 
And He said, “Woe to you lawyers also! For you load people with burdens hard to bear, and you yourselves do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers.

(Luke 11:47) 
Woe to you! For you build the tombs of the prophets whom your ancestors killed.

(Luke 11:48) 
So you are witnesses and you approve the deeds of your ancestors, because they killed the prophets and you build their tombs.

(Luke 11:49) 
Therefore also the wisdom of God said, ‘I will send them prophets and apostles, and some of them they will kill and persecute,’

(Luke 11:50) 
so that the blood of all the prophets, shed since the foundation of the world, may be required of this generation,

(Luke 11:51) 
from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who perished between the altar and the sanctuary. Yes, I tell you, it will be required of this generation.

(Luke 11:52) 
“Woe to you lawyers! For you have taken away the key of knowledge; you did not enter yourselves, and those who were entering you hindered.”

(Luke 11:53) 
As He went away from there, the scribes and the Pharisees began to press Him hard and to provoke Him to speak about many things,

(Luke 11:54) 
seeking to catch Him in something He might say.

(Luke 12:1) 
Meanwhile, when many thousands of people gathered together, crushing each other, Jesus began to speak to His disciples, saying: "Be careful of the hypocrisy of the Pharisees!"

(Luke 12:2) 
For there is nothing hidden that will not be revealed, nor is there anything secret that will not be known.

(Luke 12:3) 
Therefore, whatever you speak in darkness will be spoken in the light, and what you have whispered in the ear in the inner rooms will be proclaimed on the housetops.

(Luke 12:4) 
I say to you, my friends: Don't be afraid of those who kill the body, and after that, they cannot do anything more.

(Luke 12:5) 
I will show you whom you should fear: fear the One who, after killing, has the power to cast into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear Him.

(Luke 12:6) 
Are not five sparrows sold for two coins? Yet not one of them is forgotten by God.

(Luke 12:7) 
Indeed, the very hairs of your head are all numbered. So do not be afraid; you are of more value than many sparrows.

(Luke 12:8) 
I tell you: Whoever acknowledges Me before men, the Son of Man will also acknowledge him before the angels of God.

(Luke 12:9) 
But whoever disowns Me before men will be disowned before the angels of God.

(Luke 12:10) 
And everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven; but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.

(Luke 12:11) 
When they bring you before synagogues, rulers, and authorities, do not worry about how or what you should respond or what you should say,

(Luke 12:12) 
For the Holy Spirit will teach you at that very hour what you ought to say.

(Luke 12:13) 
Then someone from the crowd said to Him: "Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me."

(Luke 12:14) 
Jesus replied to him: "Man, who appointed Me a judge or divider over you?"

(Luke 12:15) 
And He said to them, "Watch out! Be on your guard against all kinds of greed, for a man's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions."

(Luke 12:16) 
Then He told them a parable: "The land of a rich man produced an abundant crop.

(Luke 12:17) 
And he thought to himself, 'What shall I do? I have no place to store my crops.'

(Luke 12:18) 
And he said, 'This is what I will do. I will tear down my barns and build bigger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods.'

(Luke 12:19) 
And I will say to myself, 'You have many good things stored up for many years. Relax, eat, drink, and be merry.'

(Luke 12:20) 
But God said to him, 'You fool! This night your soul is required of you; then whose will those things be which you have provided?'

(Luke 12:21) 
So is the man who lays up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God."

(Luke 12:22) 
And He said to His disciples, "Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat; nor about your body, what you will put on.

(Luke 12:23) 
For life is more than food, and the body more than clothing.

(Luke 12:24) 
Consider the ravens, for they neither sow nor reap, who have neither storehouse nor barn; and God feeds them. How much more are you better than the birds?

(Luke 12:25) 
And which of you by worrying can add a single cubit to his stature?

(Luke 12:26) 
If you cannot do the least, why are you anxious about the rest?

(Luke 12:27) 
Consider the lilies, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin, but I tell you that not even Solomon in all his glory was clothed like one of these.

(Luke 12:28) 
Now if God so clothes the grass in the field, which today is, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much more will He clothe you, O you of little faith?

(Luke 12:29) 
And do not seek what you should eat or what you should drink, nor be anxious.

(Luke 12:30) 
For all these things the nations of the world seek after, and your Father knows that you need these things.

(Luke 12:31) 
But seek the kingdom of God, and all these things will be added to you.

(Luke 12:32) 
Do not fear, little flock, for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom.

(Luke 12:33) 
Sell what you have and give alms; make yourselves purses which do not wear out, an unfailing treasure in heaven, where no thief comes near, nor moth destroys.

(Luke 12:34) 
For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.

(Luke 12:35) 
Let your loins be girded and your lamps burning;

(Luke 12:36) 
and you yourselves be like men who wait for their master to return from the wedding feast, so that when he comes and knocks, they may immediately open to him.

(Luke 12:37) 
Blessed are those servants whom the master finds awake when he comes! Truly, I say to you, he will gird himself and have them recline at table, and he will come and serve them.

(Luke 12:38) 
If he comes in the second watch, or if he comes in the third watch, and finds them awake, blessed are those servants!

(Luke 12:39) 
But understand this: If the master of the house had known at what hour the thief was coming, he would have kept watch and would not have allowed his house to be broken into.

(Luke 12:40) 
You also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.

(Luke 12:41) 
Peter said to Him: "Lord, are You telling this parable to us, or to everyone?"

(Luke 12:42) 
And the Lord said: "Who then is the faithful and prudent steward whom his master will put in charge of his servants to give them their portion of food at the proper time?

(Luke 12:43) 
Blessed is that servant whom his master will find doing so when he comes.

(Luke 12:44) 
Truly, I say to you, he will put him in charge of all his possessions.

(Luke 12:45) 
But if that servant says in his heart, 'My master is delaying his coming,' and begins to beat the male and female servants, and to eat and drink and get drunk,

(Luke 12:46) 
the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he does not know, and will cut him in two and assign him a place with the unfaithful.

(Luke 12:47) 
And that servant who knew his master's will and did not prepare or do what was required of him will be beaten with many blows.

(Luke 12:48) 
But the one who did not know, and did what deserved a beating, will receive a few blows. To whom much is given, much will be required, and from the one to whom much has been entrusted, even more will be demanded.

(Luke 12:49) 
I came to cast fire on the earth, and would that it were already kindled!

(Luke 12:50) 
But I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how I am constrained until it is completed!

(Luke 12:51) 
Do you think that I have come to bring peace on earth? No, I tell you, but division.

(Luke 12:52) 
For from now on in one house there will be five divided, three against two, and two against three.

(Luke 12:53) 
They will be divided, father against son and son against father, mother against daughter and daughter against mother, mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.

(Luke 12:54) 
He also said to the crowds, "When you see a cloud rising in the west, immediately you say, 'A shower is coming,' and so it happens.

(Luke 12:55) 
And when you see the south wind blowing, you say, 'There will be scorching heat,' and it happens.

(Luke 12:56) 
You hypocrites! You know how to interpret the appearance of the earth and the sky, but why do you not know how to interpret the present time?

(Luke 12:57) 
And why do you not judge for yourselves what is right?

(Luke 12:58) 
When you go with your accuser before a magistrate, make an effort to settle with him on the way, lest he drag you to the judge, and the judge hand you over to the officer, and the officer throw you into prison.

(Luke 12:59) 
I tell you, you will not get out until you have paid the very last penny.

(Luke 13:1) 
At that time, some people told Jesus about some Galileans whose blood Pilate had mixed with their sacrifices.

(Luke 13:2) 
And He answered, "Do you think that these Galileans were greater sinners than all the other Galileans, because they suffered these things?

(Luke 13:3) 
I tell you, no; but unless you do penance, you will all perish in the same way.

(Luke 13:4) 
Or those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell—do you think that they were debtors above all the people who live in Jerusalem?

(Luke 13:5) 
I tell you, no; but unless you do penance, you will all perish in the same way.

(Luke 13:6) 
He spoke also this parable: "A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard; and he came looking for fruit on it and found none.

(Luke 13:7) 
He said to the vinedresser, 'Behold, for three years I have come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and I find none. Cut it down. Why does it still occupy the ground?'

(Luke 13:8) 
But he answering, said to him, 'Lord, let it alone this year also, until I dig around it and put on manure.

(Luke 13:9) 
And if it bears fruit, well; but if not, then after that you can cut it down.'

(Luke 13:10) 
And He was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath.

(Luke 13:11) 
And behold, there was a woman who had a spirit of infirmity for eighteen years; and she was bent over and could not in any way look up.

(Luke 13:12) 
When Jesus saw her, He called her and said to her, "Woman, you are freed from your infirmity."

(Luke 13:13) 
And He laid His hands on her; and immediately she was made straight, and glorified God.

(Luke 13:14) 
And the ruler of the synagogue, indignant that Jesus had cured on the Sabbath, said to the crowd, "There are six days on which work ought to be done; come, therefore, and be cured on those days, and not on the Sabbath day."

(Luke 13:15) 
The Lord answered him, "Hypocrite, does not each one of you on the Sabbath untie his ox or his ass from the manger and lead them away to water?

(Luke 13:16) 
And ought not this daughter of Abraham, whom Satan has bound for eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath day?"

(Luke 13:17) 
And when He said these things, all His adversaries were put to shame; and all the people were rejoicing at all the glorious things that were being done by Him.

(Luke 13:18) 
He was saying therefore: "To what is the kingdom of God like? And to what shall I compare it?

(Luke 13:19) 
It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took and sowed in his garden; and it grew and became a great tree, and the birds of the air lodged in its branches."

(Luke 13:20) 
And again He said, "To what shall I liken the kingdom of God?

(Luke 13:21) 
It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal, until it was all leavened."

(Luke 13:22) 
And He was going through the cities and villages, teaching and journeying towards Jerusalem.

(Luke 13:23) 
And someone said to Him, "Lord, are only a few being saved?"

(Luke 13:24) 
But He said to them, "Strive to enter through the narrow gate, for many, I say to you, will seek to enter and will not be able.

(Luke 13:25) 
When once the householder has risen and shut the door, you will begin to stand outside and knock at the door, saying, 'Lord, open to us.' And He will answer and say to you, 'I do not know where you are from.'

(Luke 13:26) 
Then you will begin to say, 'We ate and drank in Your presence, and You taught in our streets.'

(Luke 13:27) 
And He will say to you, 'I do not know where you are from. Depart from Me, all you workers of iniquity.'

(Luke 13:28) 
There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when you see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, and yourselves thrust out.

(Luke 13:29) 
And they will come from the east and the west, and from the north and the south, and will recline at table in the kingdom of God.

(Luke 13:30) 
And behold, there are last who will be first, and there are first who will be last.

(Luke 13:31) 
At that very hour, some Pharisees came up and said to Him, "Go away and depart from here, for Herod wishes to kill You."

(Luke 13:32) 
And He said to them, "Go and tell that fox, 'Behold, I cast out demons and perform cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I am perfected.'

(Luke 13:33) 
Nevertheless, I must go on My way today and tomorrow and the next day; for it is not possible for a prophet to perish outside Jerusalem.

(Luke 13:34) 
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her, how often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you would not!

(Luke 13:35) 
Behold, your house is left to you desolate. And I say to you that you shall not see Me until you say, 'Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord.'

(Luke 14:1) 
One sabbath, Jesus went to eat bread in the house of a leader of the Pharisees, and they were all watching Him closely.

(Luke 14:2) 
A man suffering from dropsy was present before them.

(Luke 14:3) 
Jesus responded, asking the lawyers and Pharisees, “Is it permissible to heal on the Sabbath?”

(Luke 14:4) 
They remained silent. Then, taking hold of the man, He healed him and let him go.

(Luke 14:5) 
Then, He said to them, “If your donkey or ox falls into a well, who among you won’t immediately pull it out, even on the Sabbath?”

(Luke 14:6) 
They were not able to respond to these things.

(Luke 14:7) 
He also told a parable to those who were invited, as He observed how they chose the best places at the table, saying to them:

(Luke 14:8) 
“When you are invited to a wedding feast, don’t recline in the best place, lest a more important person than you has been invited.

(Luke 14:9) 
Then, the one who invited you and the other guest may come and say to you, ‘Give this man your place.’ Then you would begin to take the lowest place with shame.

(Luke 14:10) 
But when you are invited, go and recline in the lowest place, so that when the one who invited you comes, he may say to you, ‘Friend, move up higher.’ Then it will be a glory to you in the sight of all those at table with you.

(Luke 14:11) 
For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and the one who humbles himself will be exalted.”

(Luke 14:12) 
He also said to the one who invited Him: “When you give a lunch or a dinner, don’t invite your friends, brothers, relatives, or rich neighbors. Otherwise, they may invite you back, and you will be repaid.

(Luke 14:13) 
But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, and the blind.

(Luke 14:14) 
Then you will be blessed, because they have no means to repay you. For you will be repaid at the resurrection of the just.”

(Luke 14:15) 
Hearing this, one of those reclining at table with Him said to Him, “Blessed is the one who will eat bread in the kingdom of God!”

(Luke 14:16) 
But He said to him: “A man once gave a great dinner and invited many.

(Luke 14:17) 
And at the time of the dinner, he sent his servant to tell those who were invited to come, because everything was now ready.

(Luke 14:18) 
But they all began to make excuses together. The first one said to him, ‘I bought a piece of land, and I must go out and see it. I ask you, consider me excused.’

(Luke 14:19) 
And another said, ‘I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I’m going to try them out. I ask you, consider me excused.’

(Luke 14:20) 
And another said, ‘I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come.’

(Luke 14:21) 
The servant returned and reported these things to his master. Then, the master of the house, angered, said to his servant, ‘Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in the poor, the crippled, the lame, and the blind.’

(Luke 14:22) 
The servant said, ‘Master, what you ordered has been done, and there is still room.’

(Luke 14:23) 
And the master said to the servant, ‘Go out to the highways and hedges, and compel people to come in, that my house may be filled.’

(Luke 14:24) 
I tell you, that none of those men who were invited will taste my dinner.”

(Luke 14:25) 
Large crowds were traveling with Him; and turning, He said to them:

(Luke 14:26) 
“If anyone comes to Me and does not hate his father, mother, wife, children, brothers, and sisters, and even his own life, he cannot be My disciple.

(Luke 14:27) 
And whoever does not carry his own cross and follow Me cannot be My disciple.

(Luke 14:28) 
For which of you, wishing to build a tower, does not first sit down and calculate the cost to see if he has enough to complete it?

(Luke 14:29) 
Otherwise, after laying the foundation but not being able to complete it, all who see it may begin to ridicule him,

(Luke 14:30) 
saying, ‘This man began to build but was not able to finish.’

(Luke 14:31) 
Or what king, going to war against another king, does not first sit down and consider whether he is able with ten thousand men to meet the one who comes against him with twenty thousand?

(Luke 14:32) 
If he is not able, while the other is still far away, he sends a delegation and asks for terms of peace.

(Luke 14:33) 
So, in the same way, whoever of you does not renounce all that he possesses cannot be My disciple.

(Luke 14:34) 
Salt is good; but if the salt loses its flavor, with what will it be seasoned?

(Luke 14:35) 
It is neither good for the land nor for the manure pile; they throw it out. Whoever has ears to hear, let him hear.”

(Luke 15:1) 
The tax collectors and other sinners were approaching Jesus to listen to Him.

(Luke 15:2) 
But the Pharisees and scribes were murmuring. They said, “This man welcomes sinners and eats with them.”

(Luke 15:3) 
He then told them this parable:

(Luke 15:4) 
“If one of you has one hundred sheep, and loses one of them, won't you leave the ninety-nine in the wilderness and go after the one that is lost until you find it?

(Luke 15:5) 
And when he has found it, he puts it on his shoulders rejoicing.

(Luke 15:6) 
When he arrives home, he calls his friends and neighbors, saying to them: ‘Rejoice with me because I have found my sheep that was lost.’”

(Luke 15:7) 
“I tell you, there will be more joy in the sky over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous people who do not need repentance.”

(Luke 15:8) 
“Or what woman, if she has ten silver coins, if she loses one, does she not light a lamp, sweep the house, and diligently search until she finds it?

(Luke 15:9) 
When she finds it, she calls her friends and neighbors, saying: ‘Rejoice with me because I have found the coin that I had lost.’”

(Luke 15:10) 
“So I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents.”

(Luke 15:11) 
And He said: “A certain man had two sons:

(Luke 15:12) 
The younger one said to his father, ‘Father, give me the portion of inheritance that belongs to me.’ So the father divided his property between them.

(Luke 15:13) 
Not long after, the younger son gathered all his possessions and set off for a distant country. There, he squandered his wealth in wild living.

(Luke 15:14) 
When he had spent everything, a severe famine arose in that country, and he began to be in need.

(Luke 15:15) 
So he went and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country, who sent him to his fields to feed swine.

(Luke 15:16) 
And he longed to fill his stomach with the pods that the swine were eating, but no one gave him any.

(Luke 15:17) 
Then, when he came to himself, he said, ‘How many of my father's hired servants have more than enough bread, and I am dying here of hunger?

(Luke 15:18) 
I will arise and go to my father and I will say to him, “Father, I have sinned against the sky and before you.

(Luke 15:19) 
I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Make me as one of your hired servants.”

(Luke 15:20) 
So he arose and went to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion, and ran and embraced him, and kissed him.

(Luke 15:21) 
And the son said to him, ‘Father, I have sinned against the sky and before you; I am no longer worthy to be called your son.’

(Luke 15:22) 
But the father said to his servants, ‘Quickly bring out the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand and sandals on his feet.

(Luke 15:23) 
Also bring the fattened calf and kill it. Let us eat and celebrate.

(Luke 15:24) 
For this my son was dead and has come back to life; he was lost, and is found.’ And they began to celebrate.

(Luke 15:25) 
Now his older son was in the field, and as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing.

(Luke 15:26) 
He summoned one of the servants and asked what these things meant.

(Luke 15:27) 
The servant told him, ‘Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fattened calf, because he has received him back safe and sound.’

(Luke 15:28) 
But he was angry and refused to go in. Therefore his father came out and began to plead with him.

(Luke 15:29) 
But he answered and said to his father, ‘Look, these many years I have served you, and I never disobeyed your command. Yet you never gave me a young goat, so that I might celebrate with my friends.

(Luke 15:30) 
But when this son of yours, who has devoured your property with prostitutes, came, you killed the fattened calf for him.’

(Luke 15:31) 
And he said to him, ‘Son, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours.

(Luke 15:32) 
But it was fitting to celebrate and rejoice, for your brother was dead and has come back to life, and was lost and is found.’”

(Luke 16:1) 
Jesus also said to his disciples: “There was a certain rich man who had a manager. This manager was accused of wasting his possessions.

(Luke 16:2) 
So the rich man called him and said, ‘What is this that I hear about you? Give an account of your management, because you can no longer be my manager.’

(Luke 16:3) 
The manager said to himself, ‘What am I going to do now that my master is taking away my management? I cannot dig, and I am ashamed to beg.’

(Luke 16:4) 
‘I know what I will do, so that, when I am removed from my management, people may welcome me into their houses.’

(Luke 16:5) 
So he summoned each one of his master's debtors. He asked the first, ‘How much do you owe my master?’

(Luke 16:6) 
He replied, ‘One hundred measures of olive oil.’ The manager said to him, ‘Here is your bill. Sit down quickly and write fifty.’

(Luke 16:7) 
Then he asked another, ‘And how much do you owe?’ He replied, ‘One hundred measures of wheat.’ He said to him, ‘Take your bill and write eighty.’

(Luke 16:8) 
And the master commended the dishonest manager because he had acted shrewdly. For the sons of this world are more shrewd in their generation than the sons of light.

(Luke 16:9) 
And I tell you, make friends for yourselves by means of the wealth of unrighteousness so that when it fails, they may receive you into the eternal dwellings.

(Luke 16:10) 
He who is faithful in a very little thing is faithful also in much. And he who is unjust in a very little thing is unjust also in much.

(Luke 16:11) 
If therefore you have not been faithful in the unrighteous wealth, who will trust you with the true wealth?

(Luke 16:12) 
And if you have not been faithful with what belongs to another, who will give you what is your own?

(Luke 16:13) 
No servant can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon.

(Luke 16:14) 
Now the Pharisees, who were lovers of money, were listening to all these things, and they ridiculed Him.

(Luke 16:15) 
And He said to them, “You are those who justify yourselves before men, but God knows your hearts. For what is exalted among men is an abomination in the sight of God.

(Luke 16:16) 
The Law and the Prophets were until John. Since then the kingdom of God is preached, and everyone forces his way into it.

(Luke 16:17) 
But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one stroke of a letter of the Law to fail.

(Luke 16:18) 
Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and he who marries a woman divorced from her husband commits adultery.

(Luke 16:19) 
“There was a certain rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen, and who feasted sumptuously every day.

(Luke 16:20) 
And at his gate was laid a certain beggar named Lazarus, covered with sores,

(Luke 16:21) 
longing to be fed with the crumbs that fell from the rich man’s table. Moreover, the dogs came and licked his sores.

(Luke 16:22) 
So it was that the beggar died and was carried away by the angels to Abraham’s bosom. The rich man also died and was buried in hell.

(Luke 16:23) 
And in hell, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far away and Lazarus in his bosom.

(Luke 16:24) 
And he cried out and said, ‘Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus to dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am tormented in this flame.’

(Luke 16:25) 
But Abraham said, ‘Son, remember that in your lifetime you received good things, and Lazarus in like manner evil things. But now he is comforted here, and you are tormented.’

(Luke 16:26) 
And besides all this, between us and you a great chasm has been fixed, so that those who want to pass from here to you cannot, nor can those from there pass to us.’

(Luke 16:27) 
And he said, ‘Then I beg you, father, that you send him to my father’s house—

(Luke 16:28) 
for I have five brothers—so that he may warn them, lest they also come to this place of torment.’

(Luke 16:29) 
But Abraham said, ‘They have Moses and the Prophets; let them hear them.’

(Luke 16:30) 
And he said, ‘No, father Abraham, but if someone goes to them from the dead, they will repent.’

(Luke 16:31) 
He said to him, ‘If they do not hear Moses and the Prophets, neither will they be persuaded though someone rises from the dead.’

(Luke 17:1) 
Then Jesus said to his disciples: "It is impossible that no scandals come, but woe to him by whom they come!"

(Luke 17:2) 
It is better for him if a millstone is put around his neck and he is thrown into the sea, than that he should scandalize one of these little ones.

(Luke 17:3) 
Be careful about this. If your brother sins against you, rebuke him; and if he repents, forgive him.

(Luke 17:4) 
And if he sins against you seven times in a day, and seven times a day turns back to you saying, 'I repent,' you must forgive him.

(Luke 17:5) 
And the apostles said to the Lord, "Increase our faith."

(Luke 17:6) 
And the Lord said: "If you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move; and nothing will be impossible for you."

(Luke 17:7) 
But who of you, having a servant plowing or feeding sheep, will say to him when he comes in from the field, 'Come at once and recline at table'?

(Luke 17:8) 
And will he not say to him, 'Prepare my dinner, and gird yourself and serve me, until I have eaten and drunk; and afterward you shall eat and drink'?

(Luke 17:9) 
Does he thank that servant because he did the things commanded him? I do not think so.

(Luke 17:10) 
So you also, when you have done all that is commanded you, say, 'We are unworthy servants; we have done what we ought to do.'

(Luke 17:11) 
And it came to pass as He was going to Jerusalem, that He passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee.

(Luke 17:12) 
And as He entered a certain village, there met Him ten men who were lepers, who stood afar off.

(Luke 17:13) 
And they lifted up their voices, saying, "Jesus, Master, have mercy on us!"

(Luke 17:14) 
And when He saw them, He said to them, "Go, show yourselves to the priests." And it happened that as they went, they were cleansed.

(Luke 17:15) 
And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, returned, glorifying God with a loud voice,

(Luke 17:16) 
and he fell on his face at His feet, giving thanks to Him. And he was a Samaritan.

(Luke 17:17) 
And Jesus answering, said: "Were there not ten cleansed? Where are the nine?

(Luke 17:18) 
Was there not any found to return and give glory to God, except this foreigner?

(Luke 17:19) 
And He said to him, "Arise, go your way; your faith has made you whole."

(Luke 17:20) 
And when He was asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, He answered them and said, "The kingdom of God does not come with observation;"

(Luke 17:21) 
nor will they say, 'See here!' or 'See there!' For indeed, the kingdom of God is within you."

(Luke 17:22) 
Then He said to the disciples, "The days will come when you will desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see it.

(Luke 17:23) 
And they will say to you, 'Look here!' or 'Look there!' Do not go, nor follow them.

(Luke 17:24) 
For as the lightning flashes out of one part under heaven, and shines to the other part under heaven, so also will the Son of Man be in His day.

(Luke 17:25) 
But first He must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation.

(Luke 17:26) 
And as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it also be in the days of the Son of Man:

(Luke 17:27) 
they ate, they drank, they married wives, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noah entered the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all.

(Luke 17:28) 
Likewise as it was also in the days of Lot: they ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they built;

(Luke 17:29) 
but on the day that Lot went out of Sodom it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all.

(Luke 17:30) 
Even so will it be in the day when the Son of Man is revealed.

(Luke 17:31) 
In that day, he who is on the housetop, and his goods are in the house, let him not come down to take them away. And likewise the one who is in the field, let him not turn back.

(Luke 17:32) 
Remember Lot's wife.

(Luke 17:33) 
Whoever seeks to save his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life will preserve it.

(Luke 17:34) 
I tell you, in that night there will be two in one bed: one will be taken and the other will be left.

(Luke 17:35) 
Two women will be grinding together: the one will be taken and the other left.

(Luke 17:36) 
Two men will be in the field: one will be taken and the other left.

(Luke 17:37) 
And answering, they said to Him, "Where, Lord?" And He said to them, "Wherever the body is, there the eagles will be gathered together."

(Luke 18:1) 
Jesus told this parable to those who were very confident in their own righteousness and who looked down on everyone else:

(Luke 18:2) 
“Two men went up to the Temple to pray. One was a Pharisee, and the other was a tax collector.

(Luke 18:3) 
“The Pharisee stood by himself and prayed, ‘God, I thank you that I am not like other people—thieves, rogues, adulterers—or even like this tax collector.

(Luke 18:4) 
I fast twice a week, and I give a tenth of all I get.’

(Luke 18:5) 
“But the tax collector stood at a distance and would not even look up to heaven, but beat his breast and said, ‘God, have mercy on me, a sinner!’

(Luke 18:6) 
“I tell you, this man, rather than the other, went home justified before God. For all those who exalt themselves will be humbled, and those who humble themselves will be exalted.”

(Luke 18:7) 
People were also bringing babies to Jesus for him to touch. When the disciples saw this, they rebuked them.

(Luke 18:8) 
But Jesus called the children to him and said, “Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God.

(Luke 18:9) 
Truly I tell you, anyone who will not receive the kingdom of God like a little child will never enter it.”

(Luke 18:10) 
A certain ruler asked him, “Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?”

(Luke 18:11) 
“Why do you call me good?” Jesus answered. “No one is good—except God alone.

(Luke 18:12) 
You know the commandments: ‘You shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not give false testimony, honor your father and mother.’

(Luke 18:13) 
“All these I have kept since I was a boy,” he replied.

(Luke 18:14) 
When Jesus heard this, he said to him, “You still lack one thing. Sell everything you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. Then come, follow me.”

(Luke 18:15) 
When he heard this, he became very sad, because he was very wealthy.

(Luke 18:16) 
Jesus looked at him and said, “How hard it is for the rich to enter the kingdom of God!

(Luke 18:17) 
Indeed, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of God.”

(Luke 18:18) 
Those who heard this asked, “Then who can be saved?”

(Luke 18:19) 
Jesus replied, “What is impossible for human beings is possible for God.”

(Luke 18:20) 
Peter said, “We have left our own homes and followed you.”

(Luke 18:21) 
And he said to them, “Truly I tell you, there is no one who has left home or parents or brothers or sisters or wife or children for the sake of the kingdom of God

(Luke 18:22) 
who will not receive many times more in this age and, in the age to come, eternal life.”

(Luke 18:23) 
Then he took the Twelve aside and told them, “We are going up to Jerusalem, and everything that is written about the Son of Man by the prophets will be fulfilled.

(Luke 18:24) 
He will be delivered over to the Gentiles, and will be mocked, insulted, and spat upon.

(Luke 18:25) 
They will flog him and kill him, and on the third day he will rise again.”

(Luke 18:26) 
The disciples understood none of this. Its meaning was hidden from them, and they did not know what he was talking about.

(Luke 18:27) 
As Jesus approached Jericho, a blind beggar was sitting by the roadside.

(Luke 18:28) 
When he heard the crowd going by, he asked what was happening.

(Luke 18:29) 
They told him, “Jesus of Nazareth is passing by.”

(Luke 18:30) 
He cried out, “Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!”

(Luke 18:31) 
Those who were in front told him to be quiet, but he shouted all the more, “Son of David, have mercy on me!”

(Luke 18:32) 
Jesus stopped and ordered the man to be brought to him. When he came near, Jesus asked him,

(Luke 18:33) 
“What do you want me to do for you?” “Lord,” he replied, “I want to see.”

(Luke 18:34) 
Jesus said to him, “Receive your sight; your faith has healed you.” Immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus, glorifying God. When all the people saw this, they also praised God.

(Luke 19:1) 
And having entered, He was passing through Jericho.

(Luke 19:2) 
And behold, a man, by the name of Zacchaeus: and he was the chief of the tax collectors, and he himself was rich:

(Luke 19:3) 
and he was seeking to see Jesus, who He was: and he could not because of the crowd, because he was small in stature.

(Luke 19:4) 
And running ahead, he ran behind, and he climbed a sycamore tree to see Him: because He was to pass by that way.

(Luke 19:5) 
And when He had come to the place, looking up, Jesus saw him, and said to him: "Zacchaeus, hurry down: because today I must stay in your house."

(Luke 19:6) 
And he hurried down, and received Him, rejoicing.

(Luke 19:7) 
And when all saw, they murmured, saying that He had turned aside to a sinful man.

(Luke 19:8) 
But standing, Zacchaeus said to the Lord: "Behold, Lord, I give half of my possessions to the poor: and if I have defrauded anyone, I restore fourfold."

(Luke 19:9) 
Jesus said to him: "Today salvation has come to this house: because he is also a son of Abraham."

(Luke 19:10) 
For the Son of Man came to seek, and to save that which was lost.

(Luke 19:11) 
And while they were listening to these things, He added a parable: because He was near Jerusalem, and they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear.

(Luke 19:12) 
He said therefore: "A certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return."

(Luke 19:13) 
And calling his ten servants, he gave them ten talents, and said to them: 'Do business until I come."

(Luke 19:14) 
But his citizens hated him: and they sent a delegation after him, saying: 'We do not want this man to reign over us.'

(Luke 19:15) 
And it came to pass that when he returned, having received the kingdom, he ordered those servants to be called, to whom he had given the money, that he might know what they had gained.

(Luke 19:16) 
And the first came, saying: 'Lord, your talent has gained ten talents.'

(Luke 19:17) 
And he said to him: 'Well done, good servant: because you have been faithful in a very little thing, you will have power over ten cities.'

(Luke 19:18) 
And the second came, saying: 'Lord, your talent has made five talents.'

(Luke 19:19) 
And to this one he said: 'You also shall be over five cities.'

(Luke 19:20) 
And another came, saying: 'Lord, behold, your talent, which I had put away in a napkin:

(Luke 19:21) 
For I feared you, because you are a harsh man: you take up what you did not lay down, and you reap what you did not sow.'

(Luke 19:22) 
He said to him: 'By your own mouth I judge you, wicked servant. You knew that I am a harsh man, taking up what I did not lay down, and reaping what I did not sow:

(Luke 19:23) 
and why did you not put my money at the table? And I, coming, might have required it with interest.'

(Luke 19:24) 
And to those who were standing there, he said: 'Take the talent from him, and give it to the one who has ten talents.'

(Luke 19:25) 
And they said to him: 'Lord, he has ten talents.'

(Luke 19:26) 
I tell you, because to everyone who has, more will be given, and from him who does not have, even what he has will be taken away from him.

(Luke 19:27) 
But as for those enemies of mine, who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here, and kill them before me.'

(Luke 19:28) 
And when He had said these things, He went on, going up to Jerusalem.

(Luke 19:29) 
And it happened, when He had come near to Bethphage and Bethany, to the mountain that is called Olivet, He sent two of His disciples,

(Luke 19:30) 
saying: 'Go into the village which is opposite you: entering into it, you will find a colt of an ass tied, on which no one has ever sat: untie him, and bring him.'

(Luke 19:31) 
And if anyone asks you: "Why are you untying it?" so shall you say to him: 'Because the Lord has need of his service.'

(Luke 19:32) 
And they that were sent went, and found it as He had told them.

(Luke 19:33) 
And as they were untying the colt, its owners said to them: 'Why are you untying the colt?'

(Luke 19:34) 
And they said: 'Because the Lord has need of him.'

(Luke 19:35) 
And they led him to Jesus: and casting their garments on the colt, they placed Jesus on it.

(Luke 19:36) 
And as He went, they spread their garments in the way.

(Luke 19:37) 
And when He was now approaching the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples, rejoicing, began to praise God with a loud voice for all the miracles that they had seen,

(Luke 19:38) 
saying: "Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord: peace in heaven, and glory in the highest."

(Luke 19:39) 
And some of the Pharisees from the crowd said to Him: "Teacher, rebuke your disciples."

(Luke 19:40) 
To whom He said: "I tell you, that if these should be silent, the stones will cry out."

(Luke 19:41) 
And when He drew near, seeing the city, He wept over it,

(Luke 19:42) 
saying: "If only you had known, even you, and especially on this day, the things that belong to your peace: but now they are hidden from your eyes.

(Luke 19:43) 
For the days will come upon you: and your enemies will build a rampart around you, and they will encircle you and hem you in on every side:

(Luke 19:44) 
and they will dash you to the ground, and your children within you: and they will not leave in you one stone upon another: because you did not know the time of your visitation."

(Luke 19:45) 
And entering the temple, He began to cast out those who were selling and buying in it,

(Luke 19:46) 
saying to them: "It is written: 'My house is a house of prayer.' But you have made it a den of thieves."

(Luke 19:47) 
And He was teaching daily in the temple. But the chief priests, and the scribes, and the chief men of the people sought to destroy Him:

(Luke 19:48) 
and they did not find what they could do to Him: for all the people were hanging on to Him, listening.

(Luke 20:1) 
One day, as Jesus was teaching the crowds in the Temple and preaching the Good News, the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders came up to Him.

(Luke 20:2) 
They said: “Tell us, by what authority do You do these things? Or who gave You this authority?”

(Luke 20:3) 
Jesus answered, saying to them: “I will also ask you one question. Answer Me,

(Luke 20:4) 
Was John’s baptism from Heaven, or from men?”

(Luke 20:5) 
They reasoned among themselves, saying: “If we say, ‘From Heaven,’ He will say, ‘Why then did you not believe him?’

(Luke 20:6) 
But if we say, ‘From men,’ all the people will stone us, because they are certain that John was a prophet.”

(Luke 20:7) 
So they answered that they did not know where it was from.

(Luke 20:8) 
Jesus said to them: “Then neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.”

(Luke 20:9) 
Then He began to tell the people this parable: “A man planted a vineyard, leased it to tenant farmers, and went away for a long time.

(Luke 20:10) 
At the right time, he sent a servant to the tenant farmers, so they would give him some of the fruit of the vineyard. But the tenant farmers, after beating him, sent him away empty-handed.

(Luke 20:11) 
So he sent another servant, but they beat him, insulted him, and sent him away empty-handed as well.

(Luke 20:12) 
Then he sent a third servant. They wounded this one and threw him out.

(Luke 20:13) 
Then the owner of the vineyard said, ‘What should I do? I will send my beloved son. Surely they will respect him.’

(Luke 20:14) 
But when the tenant farmers saw him, they reasoned among themselves, saying, ‘This is the heir. Let us kill him, so that the inheritance will be ours.’

(Luke 20:15) 
So they cast him out of the vineyard and killed him. What, then, will the owner of the vineyard do to them?

(Luke 20:16) 
He will come and destroy those tenant farmers and will give the vineyard to others.” Hearing this, they said: “May it never be!”

(Luke 20:17) 
But looking at them, He said: “Then what does this Scripture mean: ‘The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone’?

(Luke 20:18) 
“Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces, and upon whomever it falls, it will crush him.”

(Luke 20:19) 
The chief priests and the scribes sought to arrest Him that very hour, but they feared the people, because they knew He had spoken this parable against them.

(Luke 20:20) 
Watching closely, they sent spies who pretended to be righteous, to trap Him in His speech, so that they could hand Him over to the authority and the power of the governor.

(Luke 20:21) 
So they questioned Him, saying: “Teacher, we know that You speak and teach correctly, and that You do not show partiality, but teach the way of God in truth.

(Luke 20:22) 
Is it lawful for us to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?”

(Luke 20:23) 
But He perceived their craftiness and said to them: “Why do you test Me?

(Luke 20:24) 
Show Me a denarius. Whose image and inscription does it have?”

(Luke 20:25) 
They replied, “Caesar’s.” So He said to them: “Then render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.”

(Luke 20:26) 
They could not take hold of His word in front of the people, and being amazed at His answer, they became silent.

(Luke 20:27) 
Then some Sadducees came up to Him, who deny the resurrection, and they questioned Him,

(Luke 20:28) 
saying: “Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man’s brother dies, leaving a wife but no children, the man must take the wife and raise up offspring for his brother.

(Luke 20:29) 
Now there were seven brothers. The first took a wife, but died childless.

(Luke 20:30) 
Then the second and third brother married her,

(Luke 20:31) 
and the third took her, and in the same way all seven, but they left no children and died.

(Luke 20:32) 
Finally, the woman died too.

(Luke 20:33) 
Therefore, in the resurrection, whose wife will she be? For all seven had her as a wife.”

(Luke 20:34) 
Jesus said to them: “The sons of this age marry and are given in marriage,

(Luke 20:35) 
but those who are considered worthy to attain the next age and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry nor are given in marriage.

(Luke 20:36) 
For they cannot die anymore, since they are equal to the angels and are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection.

(Luke 20:37) 
But that the dead are raised, even Moses showed in the passage about the bush, where he calls the Lord the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.

(Luke 20:38) 
Now He is not the God of the dead, but of the living, for to Him all are alive.”

(Luke 20:39) 
Some of the scribes answered, “Teacher, You have spoken well.”

(Luke 20:40) 
And they dared not question Him any further.

(Luke 20:41) 
Then He said to them: “How do they say that the Christ is David’s son?

(Luke 20:42) 
For David himself says in the Book of Psalms: ‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at My right hand,

(Luke 20:43) 
until I make Your enemies a footstool for Your feet.”’

(Luke 20:44) 
David therefore calls Him Lord, so how is He his son?

(Luke 20:45) 
As all the people were listening, He said to His disciples:

(Luke 20:46) 
“Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes, and love greetings in the marketplaces, and the best seats in the synagogues, and the places of honor at banquets.

(Luke 20:47) 
They devour the houses of widows, pretending to pray at length; these will receive a greater condemnation.”

(Luke 21:1) 
And having raised His eyes, He saw those who were throwing their gifts into the treasury.

(Luke 21:2) 
He also saw a certain poor widow putting in two mites.

(Luke 21:3) 
And He said: "Truly, I say to you, that this poor widow put in more than all the rest.

(Luke 21:4) 
For all these put in gifts out of their abundance, into the works of God: but she from that which she lacks, she put in her whole living."

(Luke 21:5) 
And as some were speaking of the temple, how it was adorned with good stones and gifts, He said:

(Luke 21:6) 
"These things which you see, the days will come in which there will not be left a stone upon a stone that will not be torn down."

(Luke 21:7) 
And they asked Him, saying: "Teacher, when will these things be? And what sign will there be when these things are about to happen?"

(Luke 21:8) 
Who said: "See that you are not seduced; for many will come in My name, saying, 'I am He,' and 'The time is at hand.' Do not therefore go after them.

(Luke 21:9) 
And when you shall hear of wars and seditions, do not be terrified; for these things must come to pass first, but the end is not immediately."

(Luke 21:10) 
Then He said to them: "Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom.

(Luke 21:11) 
And great earthquakes will be in various places, and plagues, and famines; and terrors from heaven, and great signs will be.

(Luke 21:12) 
But before all these things, they will lay their hands on you, and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons, dragging you to kings and governors for My name's sake.

(Luke 21:13) 
And this will be for a testimony to you.

(Luke 21:14) 
Therefore lay it up in your hearts, not to meditate beforehand how you should answer.

(Luke 21:15) 
For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which all your adversaries will not be able to resist or contradict.

(Luke 21:16) 
But you will be delivered up even by parents, and brothers, and relatives, and friends; and some of you they will put to death.

(Luke 21:17) 
And you will be hated by all because of My name.

(Luke 21:18) 
And not a hair of your head will perish.

(Luke 21:19) 
In your patience you will possess your souls.

(Luke 21:20) 
And when you shall see Jerusalem surrounded by an army, then know that its desolation has drawn near.

(Luke 21:21) 
Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains; and those who are in the midst of it, depart; and those who are in the regions, not enter into it.

(Luke 21:22) 
For these are the days of vengeance, that all things which are written may be fulfilled.

(Luke 21:23) 
But woe to those who are pregnant and nursing in those days; for there will be great distress in the land, and wrath upon this people.

(Luke 21:24) 
And they will fall by the edge of the sword, and be led captive into all nations; and Jerusalem will be trodden down by the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.

(Luke 21:25) 
And there will be signs in the sun and moon and stars; and upon the earth distress of nations by reason of the confusion of the roaring of the sea and the waves,

(Luke 21:26) 
men withering away for fear, and for expectation of the things which will come upon the whole world: for the powers of the heavens will be moved.

(Luke 21:27) 
And then they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with great power and majesty.

(Luke 21:28) 
And when these things begin to happen, look up and lift up your heads, because your redemption draws near.

(Luke 21:29) 
And He spoke to them a parable: "See the fig tree, and all the trees:

(Luke 21:30) 
When they are already budding, you know that summer is near.

(Luke 21:31) 
So you also, when you see these things happen, know that the kingdom of God is near.

(Luke 21:32) 
Amen I say to you, that this generation will not pass away, until all things are fulfilled.

(Luke 21:33) 
The universe and the earth will pass away, but My words will not pass away.

(Luke 21:34) 
And take heed to yourselves, lest perhaps your hearts be weighed down with overeating and drunkenness and the cares of this life; and that day come upon you suddenly.

(Luke 21:35) 
For as a snare it will come upon all those who sit upon the face of the whole earth.

(Luke 21:36) 
Watch therefore, praying at all times, that you may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that are to come, and to stand before the Son of Man.

(Luke 21:37) 
And in the daytime He was teaching in the temple; and going out in the night, He would stay at the mountain which is called Olivet.

(Luke 21:38) 
And all the people came early in the morning to Him in the temple to listen to Him.

(Luke 22:1) 
The feast of Unleavened Bread, which is called the Passover, was now approaching.

(Luke 22:2) 
The chief priests and the scribes were seeking how to put Him to death, but they were afraid of the people.

(Luke 22:3) 
Then Satan entered into Judas, who was surnamed Iscariot, one of the twelve.

(Luke 22:4) 
And he went away, and he spoke with the chief priests and the captains about how he might betray Him to them.

(Luke 22:5) 
They were glad, and they agreed to give him money.

(Luke 22:6) 
And he promised, and he sought an opportunity to betray Him in the absence of the crowd.

(Luke 22:7) 
Then came the day of the Unleavened Bread, on which it was necessary that the Passover should be sacrificed.

(Luke 22:8) 
And He sent Peter and John, saying: “Go and prepare the Passover for us that we may eat.”

(Luke 22:9) 
But they said, “Where do you want us to prepare it?”

(Luke 22:10) 
And He said to them, “Behold, when you enter the city, a man carrying a pitcher of water will meet you. Follow him into the house which he enters.

(Luke 22:11) 
And you shall say to the master of the house: ‘The Master says to you: Where is the guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?’

(Luke 22:12) 
And he will show you a large upper room furnished. Prepare it there.”

(Luke 22:13) 
And they went, and they found as He had said to them, and they prepared the Passover.

(Luke 22:14) 
And when the hour came, He reclined at table, and the twelve Apostles with Him.

(Luke 22:15) 
And He said to them, “I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer.

(Luke 22:16) 
For I tell you that I will not eat it again until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.”

(Luke 22:17) 
And taking a chalice, He gave thanks and said, “Take this, and divide it among yourselves.

(Luke 22:18) 
For I tell you that I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes.”

(Luke 22:19) 
And taking bread, He gave thanks, and broke it, and gave it to them, saying, “This is My body, which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of Me.”

(Luke 22:20) 
Likewise also the chalice, after supper, saying: “This is the chalice, the new testament in My blood, which will be poured out for you.”

(Luke 22:21) 
Yet behold, the hand of the one betraying Me is with Me at the table.

(Luke 22:22) 
And truly the Son of Man goes according to what is determined, but woe to that man by whom He is betrayed!”

(Luke 22:23) 
And they began to inquire among themselves who it was that would do this.

(Luke 22:24) 
And there was also a strife among them, which of them should seem to be the greater.

(Luke 22:25) 
But He said to them, “The kings of the Gentiles lord it over them, and those who have power over them are called benefactors.

(Luke 22:26) 
But not so with you. Instead, let the one who is greatest among you become as the least, and the leader as the one who serves.

(Luke 22:27) 
For who is greater, the one who reclines or the one who serves? Is it not the one who reclines? But I am in your midst as one who serves.

(Luke 22:28) 
You are those who have remained with Me in My trials.

(Luke 22:29) 
And I appoint to you, as My Father has appointed to Me, a kingdom,

(Luke 22:30) 
that you may eat and drink at My table in My kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.”

(Luke 22:31) 
And the Lord said, “Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded to sift you like wheat.

(Luke 22:32) 
But I have prayed for you, that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers.”

(Luke 22:33) 
He said to Him, “Lord, I am ready to go with You both to prison and to death.”

(Luke 22:34) 
But He said, “I tell you, Peter, the rooster will not crow today until you have denied Me three times that you know Me.”

(Luke 22:35) 
And He said to them, “When I sent you without a purse or a bag or sandals, did you lack anything?”

(Luke 22:36) 
They said, “Nothing.” Then He said to them, “But now, let the one who has a purse take it, and likewise a bag, and let the one who has no sword sell his cloak and buy one.

(Luke 22:37) 
For I tell you that this which is written must still be fulfilled in Me: ‘And He was reckoned with the lawless.’ For those things concerning Me have an end.”

(Luke 22:38) 
And they said, “Lord, behold, here are two swords.” And He said to them, “It is enough.”

(Luke 22:39) 
And going out, He went as was His custom to the Mount of Olives; and the disciples also followed Him.

(Luke 22:40) 
And when He arrived at the place, He said to them, “Pray that you may not enter into temptation.”

(Luke 22:41) 
And He withdrew from them about a stone’s throw; and He knelt down and prayed,

(Luke 22:42) 
saying, “Father, if You are willing, remove this chalice from Me. But not My will, but Yours, be done.”

(Luke 22:43) 
And there appeared to Him an angel from heaven, strengthening Him.

(Luke 22:44) 
And being in agony, He prayed more earnestly. And His sweat became like great drops of blood falling down to the ground.

(Luke 22:45) 
And when He arose from prayer, and had come to His disciples, He found them sleeping for sorrow.

(Luke 22:46) 
And He said to them, “Why are you sleeping? Rise and pray that you may not enter into temptation.”

(Luke 22:47) 
While He was still speaking, behold, a crowd came up, and the one called Judas, one of the twelve, was leading them, and approached Jesus to kiss Him.

(Luke 22:48) 
But Jesus said to him, “Judas, are you betraying the Son of Man with a kiss?”

(Luke 22:49) 
When those who were with Him saw what was going to happen, they said to Him, “Lord, shall we strike with the sword?”

(Luke 22:50) 
And one of them struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his right ear.

(Luke 22:51) 
But Jesus answered and said, “Stop! No more of this.” And He touched his ear and healed him.

(Luke 22:52) 
Then Jesus said to those who had come out to Him, the chief priests, and captains of the temple, and the elders, “Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs?

(Luke 22:53) 
When I was daily with you in the temple, you did not stretch out your hands against Me. But this is your hour, and the power of darkness.”

(Luke 22:54) 
Then, taking Him, they led Him away and brought Him into the high priest’s house. But Peter was following at a distance.

(Luke 22:55) 
And when they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard and were sitting together, Peter was in the midst of them.

(Luke 22:56) 
But when a certain servant girl saw him sitting near the light, and looking closely at him, she said, “This man was also with Him.”

(Luke 22:57) 
But he denied Him, saying, “Woman, I do not know Him.”

(Luke 22:58) 
And after a little while, another one seeing him said, “You are also one of them.” But Peter said, “Man, I am not.”

(Luke 22:59) 
And after about an hour had passed, another one was insisting, saying, “Truly, this man also was with Him, for he is also a Galilean.”

(Luke 22:60) 
But Peter said, “Man, I do not know what you are saying.” And immediately, while he was still speaking, a rooster crowed.

(Luke 22:61) 
And the Lord turned and looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how He had said to him, “Before a rooster crows today, you will deny Me three times.”

(Luke 22:62) 
And Peter went out and wept bitterly.

(Luke 22:63) 
And the men who were holding Him mocked Him, beating Him.

(Luke 22:64) 
And they blindfolded Him, and struck His face, and were questioning Him, saying, “Prophesy, who is the one who struck you?”

(Luke 22:65) 
And they were saying many other blasphemies against Him.

(Luke 22:66) 
And as soon as it was day, the elders of the people assembled, along with the chief priests and scribes, and they led Him into their council,

(Luke 22:67) 
saying, “If You are the Christ, tell us.”

(Luke 22:68) 
But He said to them, “If I tell you, you will not believe Me,

(Luke 22:69) 
and if I also ask you, you will not answer Me, nor will you let Me go.

(Luke 22:70) 
But from now on the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of the power of God.”

(Luke 22:71) 
They all said, “Are You then the Son of God?” He said to them, “You say that I am.”

(Luke 22:72) 
And they said, “What further need do we have of testimony? For we have heard it ourselves from His own mouth.”

(Luke 23:1) 
And the entire crowd rose and led Him to Pilate.

(Luke 23:2) 
They began to accuse Him, saying, “We found this man subverting our nation, forbidding taxes to be paid to Caesar, and claiming to be Christ the King.”

(Luke 23:3) 
Pilate questioned Him, saying, “Are you the King of the Jews?” Jesus answered, “You say so.”

(Luke 23:4) 
Pilate then said to the chief priests and the crowds, “I find no crime in this man.”

(Luke 23:5) 
But they insisted, saying, “He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee to this place.”

(Luke 23:6) 
When Pilate heard Galilee mentioned, he asked if the man was a Galilean.

(Luke 23:7) 
And when he learned that Jesus was under Herod’s jurisdiction, he sent Him to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem during those days.

(Luke 23:8) 
Herod, upon seeing Jesus, was greatly pleased. For he had long desired to see Him, because he had heard many things about Him, and he hoped to see some miracle performed by Him.

(Luke 23:9) 
He questioned Him at length, but Jesus gave him no answer.

(Luke 23:10) 
Meanwhile, the chief priests and the scribes stood by, vehemently accusing Him.

(Luke 23:11) 
Herod, along with his soldiers, scorned and mocked Jesus. He dressed Him in a white robe and sent Him back to Pilate.

(Luke 23:12) 
And on that day, Herod and Pilate became friends, for they had been enemies before.

(Luke 23:13) 
Pilate, having called together the chief priests, the magistrates, and the people,

(Luke 23:14) 
said to them, “You have brought this man to me as one who perverts the people. Behold, I have examined Him before you and have found in this man no cause for the accusations you bring against Him.

(Luke 23:15) 
Neither has Herod, for I sent you to him, and behold, nothing deserving death has been done by Him.

(Luke 23:16) 
Therefore, I will chastise Him and release Him.”

(Luke 23:17) 
Now, he was obliged to release one prisoner to them at the feast.

(Luke 23:18) 
Then the whole crowd cried out together, saying, “Away with this man, and release Barabbas to us:

(Luke 23:19) 
Barabbas, who had been imprisoned for a riot that occurred in the city, and for murder.

(Luke 23:20) 
Pilate, wanting to release Jesus, addressed them again,

(Luke 23:21) 
But they kept shouting, “Crucify Him! Crucify Him!”

(Luke 23:22) 
Pilate addressed them a third time: “Why? What evil has He done? I find no cause of death in Him. Therefore, I will chastise Him and release Him.”

(Luke 23:23) 
But they persisted, demanding with loud voices that He be crucified. And their voices and those of the chief priests prevailed.

(Luke 23:24) 
So Pilate gave his decision that their demand should be granted.

(Luke 23:25) 
He released the man who was imprisoned for sedition and murder, the one they had asked for, but he handed Jesus over to their will.

(Luke 23:26) 
As they led Him away, they seized Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country, and they laid the cross on him to carry behind Jesus.

(Luke 23:27) 
A great crowd of people and women followed Him, and they were mourning and lamenting Him.

(Luke 23:28) 
But turning to them, Jesus said, “Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for Me, but weep for yourselves and for your children.

(Luke 23:29) 
For behold, the days are coming when they will say, ‘Blessed are the barren and the wombs that never bore and the breasts that never nursed.’

(Luke 23:30) 
Then they will begin to say to the mountains, ‘Fall on us,’ and to the hills, ‘Cover us.’

(Luke 23:31) 
For if they do these things when the wood is green, what will happen when it is dry?”

(Luke 23:32) 
Two others, both criminals, were also being led away to be executed with Him.

(Luke 23:33) 
When they came to the place called The Skull, there they crucified Him, and also the criminals, one on His right and the other on His left.

(Luke 23:34) 
And Jesus was saying, “Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.” They divided His garments and cast lots.

(Luke 23:35) 
And the people stood watching, and the rulers scoffed at Him, saying, “He saved others; let Him save Himself if He is the Christ of God, the chosen one.”

(Luke 23:36) 
The soldiers also mocked Him, coming up to Him and offering Him vinegar,

(Luke 23:37) 
saying, “If you are the King of the Jews, save Yourself.”

(Luke 23:38) 
There was also an inscription over Him, written in Greek, Latin, and Hebrew: “This is the King of the Jews.”

(Luke 23:39) 
One of the criminals hanging there blasphemed Him, saying, “Are You not the Christ? Save Yourself and us!”

(Luke 23:40) 
But the other one rebuked him, saying, “Do you not fear God, seeing you are under the same condemnation?

(Luke 23:41) 
And we indeed justly, for we are receiving the due reward of our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong.”

(Luke 23:42) 
And he said to Jesus, “Lord, remember me when You come into Your kingdom.”

(Luke 23:43) 
And Jesus said to him, “Truly, I say to you, today you will be with Me in Paradise.”

(Luke 23:44) 
It was now about the sixth hour, and darkness fell over the whole land until the ninth hour.

(Luke 23:45) 
The sun was obscured, and the curtain of the temple was torn in two.

(Luke 23:46) 
And Jesus, crying out with a loud voice, said, “Father, into Your hands I commit My spirit.” And having said this, He breathed His last.

(Luke 23:47) 
When the centurion saw what had happened, he glorified God, saying, “Certainly this man was innocent.”

(Luke 23:48) 
And all the crowds that had assembled for this spectacle, seeing what had taken place, returned home, beating their breasts.

(Luke 23:49) 
And all His acquaintances, and the women who had followed Him from Galilee, stood at a distance, watching these things.

(Luke 23:50) 
And behold, a man named Joseph, who was from Arimathea, a city of the Jews, a good and righteous man,

(Luke 23:51) 
who had not agreed to their plan and action, and he was waiting for the kingdom of God,

(Luke 23:52) 
this man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.

(Luke 23:53) 
He took it down and wrapped it in a linen shroud and laid Him in a tomb cut into the rock, where no one had ever been laid.

(Luke 23:54) 
It was the day of Preparation, and the Sabbath was beginning.

(Luke 23:55) 
The women who had come with Him from Galilee followed and saw the tomb and how His body was laid.

(Luke 23:56) 
Then they returned and prepared spices and ointments. And on the Sabbath they rested, according to the commandment.

(Luke 24:1) 
Very early on the first day of the week, the women went to the tomb, bringing the spices they had prepared.

(Luke 24:2) 
They found the stone rolled away from the tomb.

(Luke 24:3) 
They went inside, but they didn't find the body of the Lord Jesus.

(Luke 24:4) 
While they were stunned and didn't know what to make of this, two men in shining clothes suddenly stood beside them.

(Luke 24:5) 
The women were terrified and bowed their faces to the ground. The men asked them, “Why are you looking for the living among the dead?

(Luke 24:6) 
He isn't here! He's risen! Remember how he spoke to you while he was still in Galilee,

(Luke 24:7) 
telling you that the Son of Man must be handed over to the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and rise on the third day?”

(Luke 24:8) 
Then they remembered His words.

(Luke 24:9) 
They returned from the tomb and told all these things to the eleven disciples and to all the others.

(Luke 24:10) 
It was Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and the other women with them who told the apostles these things.

(Luke 24:11) 
The apostles thought what the women said was nonsense, and they didn't believe them.

(Luke 24:12) 
Peter, however, got up and ran to the tomb. He bent down and saw the linen cloths but nothing else. Then he went away, wondering what had happened.

(Luke 24:13) 
That same day, two of the disciples were going to a village called Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem,

(Luke 24:14) 
and they were talking with each other about all these things that had happened.

(Luke 24:15) 
As they were talking and discussing, Jesus Himself drew near and walked with them.

(Luke 24:16) 
But their eyes were kept from recognizing Him.

(Luke 24:17) 
He asked them, “What are you discussing with each other as you walk along?” They stopped, looking sad.

(Luke 24:18) 
One of them, named Cleopas, asked Him, “Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who doesn’t know the things that have happened there in these days?”

(Luke 24:19) 
He asked them, “What things?” They said, “About Jesus of Nazareth, who was a prophet powerful in word and deed before God and all the people,

(Luke 24:20) 
and how our chief priests and leaders handed Him over to be condemned to death, and they crucified Him.

(Luke 24:21) 
We had hoped that He was the one who would redeem Israel. And besides all this, it is now the third day since these things happened.

(Luke 24:22) 
Some women of our group have astonished us. They went to the tomb early this morning,

(Luke 24:23) 
and didn't find His body. They came back saying they had even seen a vision of angels, who said He was alive.

(Luke 24:24) 
Some of those with us went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said, but they did not see Him.”

(Luke 24:25) 
Then Jesus said to them, “You foolish people! You are slow to believe all that the prophets have spoken!

(Luke 24:26) 
Didn’t the Christ have to suffer these things and then enter His glory?”

(Luke 24:27) 
And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, He interpreted to them in all the Scriptures the things concerning Himself.

(Luke 24:28) 
As they approached the village to which they were going, Jesus acted as if He were going farther.

(Luke 24:29) 
But they urged Him, saying, “Stay with us, because it is almost evening and the day is nearly over.” So He went in to stay with them.

(Luke 24:30) 
When He was at the table with them, He took bread, gave thanks, broke it, and began to give it to them.

(Luke 24:31) 
Then their eyes were opened, and they recognized Him. But He vanished from their sight.

(Luke 24:32) 
They said to each other, “Were not our hearts burning within us while He was speaking to us on the road, while He was opening the Scriptures to us?”

(Luke 24:33) 
They got up that very hour and returned to Jerusalem. They found the eleven disciples and those with them gathered together,

(Luke 24:34) 
and they were saying, “The Lord has truly risen and has appeared to Simon!”

(Luke 24:35) 
Then the two disciples told what had happened on the road and how they recognized Him when He broke the bread.

(Luke 24:36) 
While they were talking about this, Jesus Himself stood among them and said to them, “Peace to you.” But they were startled and frightened, thinking they were seeing a ghost.

(Luke 24:37) 
But they were startled and frightened, thinking they were seeing a ghost.

(Luke 24:38) 
He said to them, “Why are you troubled? And why do doubts arise in your hearts?

(Luke 24:39) 
Look at My hands and My feet. It is I Myself! Touch Me and see, because a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see I have.”

(Luke 24:40) 
And when He had said this, He showed them His hands and feet.

(Luke 24:41) 
Because they still did not believe for joy, and were astonished, He said to them, “Do you have anything here to eat?”

(Luke 24:42) 
They gave Him a piece of broiled fish, and some honeycomb.

(Luke 24:43) 
He took it and ate it in front of them.

(Luke 24:44) 
Then He said to them, “These are the words that I spoke to you while I was still with you: Everything written about Me in the Law of Moses, the Prophets, and the Psalms must be fulfilled.”

(Luke 24:45) 
Then He opened their minds to understand the Scriptures.

(Luke 24:46) 
He told them, “This is what is written: The Christ must suffer and rise from the dead on the third day,

(Luke 24:47) 
and repentance and forgiveness of sins must be preached in His name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem.

(Luke 24:48) 
You are witnesses of these things.

(Luke 24:49) 
And look, I am sending the promise of My Father upon you. But stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high.”

(Luke 24:50) 
Then He led them out as far as Bethany, and He lifted up His hands and blessed them.

(Luke 24:51) 
As He was blessing them, He departed from them and was carried up into the universe.

(Luke 24:52) 
And they worshiped Him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy,

(Luke 24:53) 
and they were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen.