(John 1:1) 
Eternally, God the Son has been the Son of God the Father, and God the Son has had all the power, wisdom, and love of God the Father.

(John 1:2) 
God the Son has always been One God with God the Father and the Holy Spirit, who shares in all of the power, wisdom, and love of the Father and the Son.

(John 1:3) 
All things were made by Jesus Christ Our Lord, there is nothing that was not made by him.

(John 1:4) 
In His light is all fulfillment and everything meaningful about life.

(John 1:5) 
And the light of Him shined in the world darkened by sin, and the dark and sinful world could not understand Him.

(John 1:6) 
There was a man who was sent on a mission by God, and his name was John.

(John 1:7) 
He came to be a witness, to testify concerning the light, so that all might believe in the light.

(John 1:8) 
He wasn't the light, but he came to testify about the light.

(John 1:9) 
The true light was coming into the world, which illuminates every person.

(John 1:10) 
He was in the world, and the world was made by him, but the world did not know Him.

(John 1:11) 
He came to his own people, and his own people did not receive Him.

(John 1:12) 
But to all who did receive Him, He gave the power to become children of God; to those who believe in His name.

(John 1:13) 
They were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.

(John 1:14) 
And God the Son became a man of flesh and blood, and He lived among us. We have seen His glory, the glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth.

(John 1:15) 
John testified about Him and cried out, saying, “This is He who was to come after me, but He was before me, because He was before me.”

(John 1:16) 
From His fullness we have all received grace upon grace.

(John 1:17) 
For the law was given through Moses; grace and truth came through Jesus Christ.

(John 1:18) 
No one has ever seen God; the only Son, who is at the Father's side, He has made Him known.

(John 1:19) 
And this is the testimony of John: when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, “Who are you?”

(John 1:20) 
He confessed, and did not deny, but confessed, “I am not the Christ.”

(John 1:21) 
They asked him, “Then who are you? Are you Elijah?” And he said, “I am not.” “Are you the Prophet?” And he answered, “No.”

(John 1:22) 
So they said to him, “Who are you, so that we may give an answer to those who sent us? What do you say about yourself?”

(John 1:23) 
He said, “I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness, ‘Make straight the way of the Lord,’ as the prophet Isaiah said.”

(John 1:24) 
Now they who had been sent were from the Pharisees.

(John 1:25) 
And they asked him, “Why then do you baptize if you are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the Prophet?”

(John 1:26) 
John answered them, “I baptize with water, but among you stands One you do not know.

(John 1:27) 
He is the One who comes after me, who is before me, and I am not worthy to untie the strap of His sandal.”

(John 1:28) 
These things took place in Bethany beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing.

(John 1:29) 
The next day John saw Jesus coming toward him, and said, “Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!

(John 1:30) 
This is He of whom I said, ‘After me comes a Man who is before me, because He was before me.’

(John 1:31) 
I myself did not know Him, but the reason I came baptizing with water was so that He might be revealed to Israel.”

(John 1:32) 
And John testified, “I have seen the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and it remained on Him.

(John 1:33) 
I myself did not know Him, but He who sent me to baptize with water said to me, ‘On whomever you see the Spirit descending and remaining, He is the One who baptizes in the Holy Spirit.’

(John 1:34) 
And I have seen, and I have testified that this is the Son of God.”

(John 1:35) 
The next day again John was standing with two of his disciples.

(John 1:36) 
And looking at Jesus as He walked, he said, “Behold, the Lamb of God!”

(John 1:37) 
The two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus.

(John 1:38) 
Jesus turned, and seeing them following, said to them, “What are you seeking?” They said to Him, “Rabbi” (which means Teacher), “where are you staying?”

(John 1:39) 
He said to them, “Come and see.” They came and saw where He was staying, and they stayed with Him that day, for it was about the tenth hour.

(John 1:40) 
One of the two who heard John and followed Jesus was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother.

(John 1:41) 
He first found his own brother Simon, and said to him, “We have found the Messiah” (which means Christ).

(John 1:42) 
He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him and said, “You are Simon the son of John; you shall be called Cephas” (which is translated Peter).

(John 1:43) 
The next day Jesus decided to go to Galilee. And He found Philip and said to him, “Follow Me.”

(John 1:44) 
Now Philip was from Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter.

(John 1:45) 
Philip found Nathanael and said to him, “We have found Him of whom Moses in the Law and also the prophets wrote: Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.”

(John 1:46) 
And Nathanael said to him, “Can anything good come out of Nazareth?” Philip said to him, “Come and see.”

(John 1:47) 
Jesus saw Nathanael coming toward Him, and said of him, “Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom there is no deceit!”

(John 1:48) 
Nathanael said to Him, “How do You know me?” Jesus answered him, “Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you.”

(John 1:49) 
Nathanael answered Him, “Rabbi, You are the Son of God! You are the King of Israel!”

(John 1:50) 
Jesus answered and said to him, “Because I said to you, ‘I saw you under the fig tree,’ do you believe? You will see greater things than these.”

(John 1:51) 
And He said to him, “Truly, truly, I say to you, you will see heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man.”

(John 2:1) 
On the third day, a wedding was held in Cana of Galilee. The Mother of Jesus was there.

(John 2:2) 
Jesus and His disciples were also invited to the wedding.

(John 2:3) 
When the wine gave out, the Mother of Jesus said to Him, "They have no wine."

(John 2:4) 
And Jesus said to her, "What is that to Me and to you, woman? My hour has not yet come."

(John 2:5) 
His mother said to the servants, "Do whatever He tells you."

(John 2:6) 
Now there were six stone water jars there, placed for the Jewish custom of cleansing, each holding two or three measures.

(John 2:7) 
Jesus said to them, "Fill the jars with water." And they filled them up to the brim.

(John 2:8) 
Then He said to them, "Draw some out now, and take it to the headwaiter." And they took it.

(John 2:9) 
When the headwaiter tasted the water that had been turned into wine, and did not know where it came from (but the servants who had drawn the water knew), the headwaiter called the bridegroom,

(John 2:10) 
and said to him, "Every man serves the good wine first; and when they have drunk freely, then the less good wine. But you have kept the good wine until now."

(John 2:11) 
Jesus did this as the beginning of His signs in Cana of Galilee, and manifested His glory; and His disciples believed in Him.

(John 2:12) 
After this He went down to Capernaum, with His mother, His brothers, and His disciples; and they stayed there a few days.

(John 2:13) 
The Passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.

(John 2:14) 
In the temple, He found people selling oxen, sheep, and doves, and also the money changers sitting there.

(John 2:15) 
And He made a whip of cords, and drove them all out of the temple, both the sheep and the oxen; and He poured out the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables.

(John 2:16) 
And to those who were selling doves, He said, "Take these things away; do not make My Father's house a house of trade."

(John 2:17) 
His disciples remembered that it was written, "Zeal for Your house will consume me."

(John 2:18) 
The Jews then responded and said to Him, "What sign do You show us for doing these things?"

(John 2:19) 
Jesus answered and said to them, "Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up."

(John 2:20) 
The Jews then said, "This temple has been under construction for forty-six years, and will You raise it up in three days?"

(John 2:21) 
But He was speaking of the temple of His body.

(John 2:22) 
So when He was raised from the dead, His disciples remembered that He had said this; and they believed the Scripture and the word which Jesus had spoken.

(John 2:23) 
Now when He was in Jerusalem at the Passover, during the festival, many believed in His name because they saw the signs He was performing.

(John 2:24) 
But Jesus Himself was not entrusting Himself to them, because He knew all men,

(John 2:25) 
and because He had no need that anyone should testify about man, for He knew what was in man.

(John 3:1) 
There was a Pharisee, a leader of the Jews, named Nicodemus.

(John 3:2) 
This man came to see Jesus at night, and said to Him, “Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher sent by God; because no one can do these signs which you do, unless God is with him.”

(John 3:3) 
Jesus answered him, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a man is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.”

(John 3:4) 
Nicodemus said to Him, “How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother’s womb and be born?”

(John 3:5) 
Jesus answered, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a man is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.

(John 3:6) 
That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.

(John 3:7) 
Do not marvel that I said to you, ‘You must be born again.’

(John 3:8) 
The Spirit blows where He wishes, and you hear the sound of Him, but you do not know where He comes from, or where He goes. So is everyone who is born of the Spirit.”

(John 3:9) 
Nicodemus answered and said to Him, “How can these things be?”

(John 3:10) 
Jesus answered and said to him, “Are you the teacher of Israel, and yet you do not understand these things?

(John 3:11) 
Truly, truly, I say to you, we speak what we know, and testify to what we have seen, and you do not receive our testimony.

(John 3:12) 
If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things?

(John 3:13) 
And no one has ascended into the sky except the one who descended from the sky, the Son of Man, who is in the sky.

(John 3:14) 
And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up;

(John 3:15) 
so that whoever believes in Him may have eternal life.

(John 3:16) 
For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

(John 3:17) 
For God did not send the Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through Him might be saved.

(John 3:18) 
He who believes in Him is not judged; but he who does not believe is judged already, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God.

(John 3:19) 
And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil.

(John 3:20) 
For everyone who does evil hates the light, and does not come to the light, lest his deeds should be exposed.

(John 3:21) 
But he who practices the truth comes to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, because they have been wrought in God.”

(John 3:22) 
After these things Jesus and His disciples came into the land of Judea, and there He was staying with them, and baptizing.

(John 3:23) 
John was also baptizing in Aenon near Salim, because there was much water there; and they were coming and being baptized.

(John 3:24) 
For John had not yet been put in prison.

(John 3:25) 
Then there arose a question between some of John’s disciples and the Jews concerning purification.

(John 3:26) 
And they came to John and said to him, “Rabbi, He who was with you beyond the Jordan, to whom you have borne witness, behold, He is baptizing, and all are coming to Him.”

(John 3:27) 
John answered and said, “A man can receive nothing unless it has been given to him from heaven.

(John 3:28) 
You yourselves bear me witness, that I said, ‘I am not the Christ,’ but, ‘I have been sent ahead of Him.’

(John 3:29) 
He who has the bride is the bridegroom; but the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly because of the bridegroom’s voice. Therefore this joy of mine is fulfilled.

(John 3:30) 
He must increase, but I must decrease.

(John 3:31) 
He who comes from above is above all; he who is of the earth belongs to the earth and speaks of earthly things. He who comes from heaven is above all.

(John 3:32) 
And what He has seen and heard, of that He testifies; and no one receives His testimony.

(John 3:33) 
He who has received His testimony has set his seal to this, that God is true.

(John 3:34) 
For He whom God has sent speaks the words of God; for He gives the Spirit without measure.

(John 3:35) 
The Father loves the Son, and has given all things into His hand.

(John 3:36) 
He who believes in the Son has eternal life; but he who does not obey the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him.

(John 4:1) 
The Lord realized that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was gaining and baptizing more disciples than John,

(John 4:2) 
Though it was actually the disciples who were baptizing, not Jesus himself,

(John 4:3) 
He left Judea and went back into Galilee.

(John 4:4) 
But it was necessary for him to pass through Samaria.

(John 4:5) 
He arrived at a town in Samaria called Sychar, near the plot of land that Jacob gave to his son Joseph.

(John 4:6) 
Jacob’s well was there. Jesus, tired from the journey, sat down beside the well. It was about noon.

(John 4:7) 
A woman from Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, “Give me a drink.”

(John 4:8) 
For his disciples had gone into the town to buy food.

(John 4:9) 
The Samaritan woman said to him, “How is it that you, a Jew, ask a drink of me, a Samaritan woman? For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.”

(John 4:10) 
Jesus answered her, “If you knew the gift of God and who it is that is saying to you, ‘Give me a drink,’ you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water.”

(John 4:11) 
The woman said to him, “Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where do you get that living water?

(John 4:12) 
Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well and drank from it himself, with his sons and his livestock?”

(John 4:13) 
Jesus answered her, “Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again, but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again.

(John 4:14) 
The water that I will give him will become in him a fountain of water springing up to eternal life.”

(John 4:15) 
The woman said to him, “Sir, give me this water, so that I may not be thirsty or have to come here to draw water.”

(John 4:16) 
Jesus said to her, “Go, call your husband and come here.”

(John 4:17) 
The woman answered and said, “I have no husband.” Jesus said to her, “You are right in saying, ‘I have no husband’:

(John 4:18) 
for you have had five husbands, and the one you now have is not your husband.”

(John 4:19) 
The woman said to him, “Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet.

(John 4:20) 
Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you say that in Jerusalem is the place where people ought to worship.”

(John 4:21) 
Jesus said to her, “Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father.

(John 4:22) 
You worship what you do not know; we worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews.

(John 4:23) 
But the hour is coming, and is now here, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father is seeking such to worship him.

(John 4:24) 
God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth.”

(John 4:25) 
The woman said to him, “I know that Messiah is coming (he who is called Christ). When he comes, he will tell us all things.”

(John 4:26) 
Jesus said to her, “I am he, the one speaking to you.”

(John 4:27) 
Just then his disciples came. They marveled that he was talking with a woman, but no one said, “What are you seeking?” or, “Why are you talking with her?”

(John 4:28) 
So the woman left her water jar and went away into town and said to the people,

(John 4:29) 
“Come, see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ?”

(John 4:30) 
They went out of the town and were coming to him.

(John 4:31) 
Meanwhile the disciples were urging him, saying, “Rabbi, eat.”

(John 4:32) 
But he said to them, “I have food to eat that you do not know about.”

(John 4:33) 
So the disciples said to one another, “Has anyone brought him something to eat?”

(John 4:34) 
Jesus said to them, “My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work.

(John 4:35) 
Do you not say, ‘There are yet four months, then comes the harvest’? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes, and see that the fields are white for harvest.

(John 4:36) 
Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering crops for eternal life, so that sower and reaper may rejoice together.

(John 4:37) 
For here the saying holds true: ‘One sows and another reaps.’

(John 4:38) 
I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor.”

(John 4:39) 
Many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman’s testimony, “He told me all that I ever did.”

(John 4:40) 
So when the Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay with them, and he stayed there two days.

(John 4:41) 
And many more believed because of his word.

(John 4:42) 
They said to the woman, “It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world.”

(John 4:43) 
After the two days he departed for Galilee.

(John 4:44) 
For Jesus himself had testified that a prophet has no honor in his own hometown.

(John 4:45) 
So when he came to Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him, having seen all that he had done in Jerusalem at the feast, for they too had gone to the feast.

(John 4:46) 
So he came again to Cana in Galilee, where he had made the wine from water. And at Capernaum there was an official whose son was ill.

(John 4:47) 
When this man heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went to him and asked him to come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death.

(John 4:48) 
So Jesus said to him, “Unless you see signs and wonders you will not believe.”

(John 4:49) 
The official said to him, “Sir, come down before my child dies.”

(John 4:50) 
Jesus said to him, “Go; your son will live.” The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and went on his way.

(John 4:51) 
As he was going down, his servants met him and told him that his son was recovering.

(John 4:52) 
So he asked them the hour when he began to get better, and they said to him, “Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.”

(John 4:53) 
The father knew that it was at that hour when Jesus had said to him, “Your son will live.” And he himself believed, and all his household.

(John 4:54) 
This was now the second sign that Jesus did when he had come from Judea to Galilee.

(John 5:1) 
After these things, there was a feast day of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.

(John 5:2) 
Now in Jerusalem, there is a pool, the Sheep Pool, which is called Bethsaida in Hebrew, having five porticos.

(John 5:3) 
In these porticos was lying a great multitude of the sick, the blind, the lame, the withered, waiting for the moving of the water.

(John 5:4) 
For an angel of the Lord would descend at certain times into the pool, and the water was moved. And whoever first descended into the pool after the movement of the water was made whole from whatever illness held him.

(John 5:5) 
Now there was a certain man there who had been ill for thirty-eight years.

(John 5:6) 
When Jesus saw him lying there, and knew that he had been ill for a long time, He said to him: “Do you wish to be made whole?”

(John 5:7) 
The sick man answered Him: “Lord, I have no man to put me into the pool when the water is moved; for while I am coming, another steps down before me.”

(John 5:8) 
Jesus said to him: “Rise, take up your bed, and walk.”

(John 5:9) 
And immediately the man was made whole: and he took up his bed, and walked. And it was the Sabbath on that day.

(John 5:10) 
The Jews therefore said to him who was healed: “It is the Sabbath; it is not lawful for you to take up your bed.”

(John 5:11) 
He answered them: “He who made me whole, He said to me: ‘Take up your bed, and walk.’

(John 5:12) 
They therefore asked him: “Who is that man who said to you: ‘Take up your bed, and walk?’”

(John 5:13) 
But he who had been healed did not know who it was. For Jesus had turned aside from the crowd that was standing in that place.

(John 5:14) 
After these things, Jesus found him in the temple, and said to him: “Behold, you are made whole; sin no more, lest something worse happen to you.”

(John 5:15) 
The man went away, and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him.

(John 5:16) 
And therefore the Jews were persecuting Jesus, because He was doing these things on the Sabbath.

(John 5:17) 
But Jesus answered them: “My Father works until now; and I work.”

(John 5:18) 
Therefore the Jews sought all the more to kill Him: because He not only broke the Sabbath, but also said that God was His Father, making Himself equal to God.

(John 5:19) 
Jesus therefore answered and said to them: “Amen, amen, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of Himself, but what He sees the Father doing: for whatever He does, these things the Son also does in like manner.”

(John 5:20) 
For the Father loves the Son, and shows Him all things that He Himself does: and He will show Him greater works than these, that you may marvel.

(John 5:21) 
For just as the Father raises the dead, and gives them life: so also the Son gives life to whom He will.

(John 5:22) 
For neither does the Father judge anyone, but He has given all judgment to the Son,

(John 5:23) 
so that all may honor the Son, just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son, does not honor the Father who sent Him.

(John 5:24) 
Amen, amen, I say to you, that he who hears My word, and believes in Him who sent Me, has eternal life, and does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life.

(John 5:25) 
Amen, amen, I say to you, that the hour is coming, and now is, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God: and those who hear will live.

(John 5:26) 
For just as the Father has life in Himself, so also He gave to the Son to have life in Himself:

(John 5:27) 
and He gave Him authority to execute judgment, because He is the Son of Man.

(John 5:28) 
Do not marvel at this: for the hour is coming in which all who are in the tombs will hear the voice of the Son of God.

(John 5:29) 
And those who have done good will come forth to the resurrection of life: but those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment.

(John 5:30) 
I can do nothing of Myself. As I hear, I judge: and My judgment is just: because I do not seek My own will, but the will of Him who sent Me.

(John 5:31) 
If I bear witness of Myself, My witness is not true.

(John 5:32) 
There is another who bears witness of Me: and I know that the witness which He bears of Me is true.

(John 5:33) 
You sent to John, and he bore witness to the truth.

(John 5:34) 
But I do not receive testimony from man: but I say these things so that you may be saved.

(John 5:35) 
He was a burning and shining lamp: and you for a time were willing to rejoice in his light.

(John 5:36) 
But I have a greater witness than John: for the works which the Father has given Me to perfect them, the works themselves which I do, bear witness of Me, that the Father has sent Me.

(John 5:37) 
And the Father who sent Me, He Himself has given testimony of Me: nor have you ever heard His voice, nor have you seen His form.

(John 5:38) 
And you do not have His word abiding in you: for you do not believe Him whom He has sent.

(John 5:39) 
Search the Scriptures, for in them you think you have eternal life: and it is they that bear witness of Me;

(John 5:40) 
and you are not willing to come to Me that you may have life.

(John 5:41) 
I do not receive glory from men.

(John 5:42) 
But I know you, that you do not have the love of God in you.

(John 5:43) 
I have come in the name of My Father, and you do not receive Me: if another comes in his own name, him you will receive.

(John 5:44) 
How can you believe, who receive glory from one another, and do not seek the glory which is from God alone?

(John 5:45) 
Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father: there is one who accuses you, Moses, in whom you trust.

(John 5:46) 
For if you believed Moses, perhaps you would believe Me also: for he wrote of Me.

(John 5:47) 
But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe My words?

(John 6:1) 
After this, Jesus went away across the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias.

(John 6:2) 
And a great crowd was following Him, because they were seeing the signs that He was performing on those who were sick.

(John 6:3) 
So Jesus went up into the mountain, and there He sat with His disciples.

(John 6:4) 
Now the Passover, a feast day of the Jews, was near.

(John 6:5) 
When Jesus had lifted up His eyes, and saw that a great crowd was coming to Him, He said to Philip, “Where shall we buy bread, that these may eat?”

(John 6:6) 
Now He was saying this, testing him: for He Himself knew what He would do.

(John 6:7) 
Philip answered Him, “Two hundred denarii worth of bread is not enough for them, that each one may take a little.”

(John 6:8) 
One of His disciples, Simon Peter, said to Him:

(John 6:9) 
“There is a young boy here who has five barley loaves and two fishes: but what are these among so many?”

(John 6:10) 
Jesus therefore said, “Make the people sit down.” Now there was much grass in the place. The men therefore sat down, in number about five thousand.

(John 6:11) 
Jesus therefore took the loaves: and when He had given thanks, He distributed to those sitting down: likewise also of the fishes, as much as they wanted.

(John 6:12) 
Therefore when they were filled, He said to His disciples, “Gather up the fragments that remain, lest they be lost.”

(John 6:13) 
They gathered them up, and filled twelve baskets of fragments from the five barley loaves, which were left over from those who had eaten.

(John 6:14) 
Those men therefore, when they had seen what sign Jesus had done, said, “This is truly the Prophet who is to come into the world.”

(John 6:15) 
Jesus, when He knew that they would come to seize Him and make Him king, fled again into the mountain by Himself alone.

(John 6:16) 
When evening had come, His disciples went down to the sea:

(John 6:17) 
And when they had entered into a boat, they were going across the sea to Capernaum: and now it was dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them.

(John 6:18) 
And the sea was rising because a great wind was blowing.

(John 6:19) 
When therefore they had rowed about twenty-five or thirty stadia, they saw Jesus walking upon the sea, and approaching the boat: and they were afraid.

(John 6:20) 
He said to them therefore, “It is I, do not be afraid.”

(John 6:21) 
They wished therefore to take Him into the boat: and immediately the boat was at the land to which they were going.

(John 6:22) 
The next day the crowd that was standing across the sea saw that there was only one boat there, and that Jesus had not entered into the boat with His disciples, but His disciples had gone away alone:

(John 6:23) 
And other boats came from Tiberias near the place where they had eaten bread, giving thanks to the Lord.

(John 6:24) 
Therefore, when the crowd saw that Jesus was not there, nor His disciples, they went into the boats, and came to Capernaum, seeking Jesus.

(John 6:25) 
And when they had found Him across the sea, they said to Him, “Rabbi, when did You come here?”

(John 6:26) 
Jesus answered them and said, “Amen, amen I say to you, you seek Me not because you saw signs, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled.”

(John 6:27) 
“Labor not for the food that perishes, but for that which remains to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For Him the Father, God, has sealed.”

(John 6:28) 
They said therefore to Him, “What shall we do, that we may work the works of God?”

(John 6:29) 
Jesus answered and said to them, “This is the work of God: that you believe in Him Whom He has sent.”

(John 6:30) 
They said therefore to Him, “What sign then do You do, that we may see, and believe You? What do You work?”

(John 6:31) 
“Our fathers ate manna in the desert, as it is written, ‘He gave them bread from the sky to eat.’”

(John 6:32) 
Jesus therefore said to them: “Amen, amen I say to you, Moses did not give you bread from the sky; but My Father gives you the true bread from the sky.

(John 6:33) 
“For the bread of God is He Who comes down from the sky, and gives life to the world.”

(John 6:34) 
They said therefore to Him, “Lord, always give us this bread.”

(John 6:35) 
And Jesus said to them: “I am the bread of life. He who comes to Me shall not hunger: and he who believes in Me shall never thirst.”

(John 6:36) 
“But I said to you that you have also seen Me, and you do not believe.

(John 6:37) 
“All that the Father gives Me shall come to Me; and him who comes to Me I will not cast out.

(John 6:38) 
“For I have come down from the sky, not to do My own will, but the will of Him Who sent Me.”

(John 6:39) 
“Now this is the will of Him Who sent Me: that of all that He has given Me, I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again on the last day.

(John 6:40) 
“For this is the will of My Father, that everyone who sees the Son and believes in Him may have eternal life: and I will raise him up on the last day.”

(John 6:41) 
The Jews therefore were murmuring about Him, because He had said, “I am the living bread, Who came down from the sky.”

(John 6:42) 
And they were saying, “Is this not Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How then does He say, ‘I have come down from the sky’?”

(John 6:43) 
Jesus therefore answered and said to them, “Do not murmur among yourselves.

(John 6:44) 
“No one can come to Me, unless the Father, Who sent Me, draws him: and I will raise him up on the last day.

(John 6:45) 
“It is written in the prophets: ‘And they shall all be taught of God.’ Everyone who has heard from the Father, and has learned, comes to Me.

(John 6:46) 
“Not that anyone has seen the Father, except He Who is from God, He has seen the Father.

(John 6:47) 
“Amen, amen I say to you: he who believes in Me has eternal life.

(John 6:48) 
“I am the bread of life.

(John 6:49) 
“Your fathers ate manna in the desert, and they died.

(John 6:50) 
“This is the bread that comes down from the sky, so that if anyone eats of it, he will not die.

(John 6:51) 
“I am the living bread, Who came down from the sky.

(John 6:52) 
“If anyone eats of this bread, he shall live forever: and the bread that I will give is My flesh, for the life of the world.”

(John 6:53) 
The Jews therefore began to quarrel among themselves, saying, “How can this man give us His flesh to eat?”

(John 6:54) 
Jesus therefore said to them: “Amen, amen I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man, and drink His blood, you shall not have life in yourselves.

(John 6:55) 
“He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood has eternal life: and I will raise him up on the last day.

(John 6:56) 
“For My flesh is truly food: and My blood is truly drink.

(John 6:57) 
“He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood, abides in Me, and I in him.

(John 6:58) 
“As the living Father sent Me, and I live because of the Father: and he who eats Me, he also shall live because of Me.

(John 6:59) 
“This is the bread that came down from the sky. Not as your fathers ate, and died. He who eats this bread shall live forever.”

(John 6:60) 
These things He said as He was teaching in the synagogue in Capernaum.

(John 6:61) 
Many therefore of His disciples, when they had heard this, said, “This is a hard saying: and who can hear it?”

(John 6:62) 
But Jesus, knowing within Himself that His disciples were murmuring about this, said to them, “Does this scandalize you?

(John 6:63) 
“What if you shall see the Son of Man ascending where He was before?

(John 6:64) 
“It is the Spirit that gives life: but the flesh profits nothing. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life.

(John 6:65) 
“But there are some of you who do not believe.” For Jesus knew from the beginning who were believing, and who would betray Him.

(John 6:66) 
And He was saying, “For this reason I have said to you, that no one can come to Me unless it has been given to him by My Father.”

(John 6:67) 
From this time many of His disciples went back: and they were no longer walking with Him.

(John 6:68) 
Jesus therefore said to the twelve: “Do you also want to go away?”

(John 6:69) 
Simon Peter therefore answered Him: “Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life.

(John 6:70) 
“And we believe and have known that You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.”

(John 6:71) 
Jesus answered them: “Did I not choose you twelve? And one of you is a devil.”

(John 7:1) 
After this, Jesus was staying in Galilee, because He didn't want to travel in Judea, because the Jews were seeking to kill Him.

(John 7:2) 
Now the Jewish Feast of Tabernacles was near.

(John 7:3) 
His brothers said to Him, “Leave here and go into Judea, so that your disciples also can see the works you are doing.

(John 7:4) 
For nobody does anything in secret while seeking to be known openly. If you do these things, show yourself to the world.”

(John 7:5) 
For not even His brothers believed in Him.

(John 7:6) 
Then Jesus said to them: “My time has not yet come, but your time is always ready.”

(John 7:7) 
The world cannot hate you, but it hates Me, because I bear witness of it, that its works are evil.

(John 7:8) 
Go up to this feast. I am not going up to this feast, because My time is not yet fulfilled.”

(John 7:9) 
After saying this, He remained in Galilee.

(John 7:10) 
But after His brothers had gone up, then He also went up to the feast, not openly, but as if in secret.

(John 7:11) 
The Jews therefore were looking for Him at the feast, and they were saying, “Where is He?”

(John 7:12) 
And there was a great murmuring about Him among the crowds. For some were saying, “He is good.” But others were saying, “No, but He deceives the crowd.”

(John 7:13) 
Yet no one spoke openly about Him, for fear of the Jews.

(John 7:14) 
But when the feast was now half over, Jesus went up into the temple and began to teach.

(John 7:15) 
And the Jews were marveling, saying, “How does this man know letters, not having learned?”

(John 7:16) 
Jesus answered them and said: “My teaching is not Mine, but His who sent Me.

(John 7:17) 
If anyone is willing to do His will, he will know about the teaching, whether it is from God or whether I speak from Myself.

(John 7:18) 
The one who speaks from himself seeks his own glory; but the one who seeks the glory of Him who sent Him is true, and in Him there is no unrighteousness.

(John 7:19) 
Did not Moses give you the law? And yet none of you keeps the law.

(John 7:20) 
Why are you seeking to kill Me?”

(John 7:21) 
The crowd answered, “You have a demon. Who is seeking to kill You?”

(John 7:22) 
Jesus answered and said to them, “I did one work, and you all marvel.

(John 7:23) 
For this reason Moses gave you circumcision (not that it is from Moses, but from the fathers), and you circumcise a man on the Sabbath.

(John 7:24) 
If a man receives circumcision on the Sabbath so that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with Me because I made a whole man well on the Sabbath?

(John 7:25) 
Do not judge according to appearance, but judge with righteous judgment.”

(John 7:26) 
Therefore some of the people of Jerusalem were saying, “Is not this the man whom they are seeking to kill?

(John 7:27) 
And look, He is speaking openly, and they say nothing to Him. Have the rulers really come to know that this is truly the Christ?

(John 7:28) 
But we know where this man is from, but when the Christ comes, no one knows where He is from.”

(John 7:29) 
Jesus therefore cried out in the temple, teaching and saying, “You both know Me and know where I am from, and I have not come from Myself, but the One who sent Me is true, whom you do not know.

(John 7:30) 
I know Him, because I am from Him, and He sent Me.”

(John 7:31) 
Therefore they were seeking to arrest Him, and no one laid a hand on Him, because His hour had not yet come.

(John 7:32) 
But many of the crowd believed in Him, and they were saying, “When the Christ comes, will He do more signs than this man has done?”

(John 7:33) 
The Pharisees heard the crowd murmuring these things about Him, and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers to arrest Him.

(John 7:34) 
Jesus therefore said, “For a little while longer I am with you, and then I am going to Him who sent Me.

(John 7:35) 
You will seek Me, and will not find Me, and where I am, you cannot come.”

(John 7:36) 
Therefore the Jews said to one another, “Where is this man going that we will not find Him? Will He go to the Dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks?

(John 7:37) 
What is this statement that He said, ‘You will seek Me, and will not find Me, and where I am, you cannot come’?”

(John 7:38) 
On the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, “If anyone is thirsty, let him come to Me and drink.

(John 7:39) 
Whoever believes in Me, as the Scripture has said, ‘Out of his heart will flow rivers of living water.’

(John 7:40) 
But He spoke this concerning the Spirit, whom those believing in Him were to receive, for the Spirit was not yet given, because Jesus had not yet been glorified.

(John 7:41) 
Therefore some of the crowd, when they heard this statement, were saying, “This is truly the Prophet.”

(John 7:42) 
Others were saying, “This is the Christ.” But others were saying, “Surely the Christ does not come from Galilee, does He?

(John 7:43) 
Does not the Scripture say that the Christ comes from the offspring of David, and from Bethlehem, the village where David was?”

(John 7:44) 
So there was a division in the crowd because of Him.

(John 7:45) 
Some of them wanted to arrest Him, but no one laid hands on Him.

(John 7:46) 
The officers therefore came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them, “Why did you not bring Him?”

(John 7:47) 
The officers answered, “Never has a man spoken the way this man speaks!”

(John 7:48) 
The Pharisees answered them, “Are you also deceived?

(John 7:49) 
Has any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed in Him?

(John 7:50) 
But this crowd, which does not know the law, is accursed.”

(John 7:51) 
Nicodemus, who had come to Him before, and who was one of them, said, “Does our law judge a man before it hears from him and knows what he is doing?”

(John 7:52) 
They answered him, “Are you also from Galilee? Search and see that no prophet arises out of Galilee.”

(John 7:53) 
And everyone went to his home.

(John 8:1) 
Jesus then went towards the Mount of Olives.

(John 8:2) 
And in the early morning, Jesus came back to the Temple, and the people came to Him, and He sat down and taught them.

(John 8:3) 
But the scribes and Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in adultery, and they put her in the middle.

(John 8:4) 
They said to Jesus, “Teacher, this woman was caught in the very act of adultery.”

(John 8:5) 
Now in the Law, Moses commanded us to stone such a woman. So what do you say?”

(John 8:6) 
They were saying this to test Him, so that they might be able to accuse Him. But Jesus bent down and with His finger wrote on the ground.

(John 8:7) 
So when they continued asking Him, He straightened up and said to them: “Let the one of you who is without sin cast the first stone at her.”

(John 8:8) 
And again, He bent down and wrote on the ground.

(John 8:9) 
But when they heard this, they began to go out one by one, beginning with the older ones. And Jesus was left alone, with the woman standing in the middle.

(John 8:10) 
When Jesus straightened up, He said to her: “Woman, where are those who accused you? Has no one condemned you?”

(John 8:11) 
She said: “No one, Lord.” And Jesus said: “Neither do I condemn you. Go, and sin no more.”

(John 8:12) 
Jesus spoke to them again, saying: “I am the light of the world. The one who follows Me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life.”

(John 8:13) 
So the Pharisees said to Him: “You are bearing witness about Yourself; Your testimony is not true.”

(John 8:14) 
Jesus answered and said to them: “Even if I bear witness about Myself, My testimony is true, because I know where I came from and where I am going. But you do not know where I come from or where I am going.

(John 8:15) 
You judge according to the flesh. I judge no one.

(John 8:16) 
And if I do judge, My judgment is true, because I am not alone, but I and the Father who sent Me.

(John 8:17) 
And in your law it is written that the testimony of two people is true.

(John 8:18) 
I am the one who bears witness about Myself, and the Father who sent Me bears witness about Me.”

(John 8:19) 
So they were saying to Him: “Where is Your Father?” Jesus answered: “You know neither Me nor My Father. If you knew Me, you would have known My Father also.”

(John 8:20) 
Jesus spoke these words in the treasury, while He was teaching in the Temple. And no one seized Him, because His hour had not yet come.

(John 8:21) 
Then Jesus said to them again: “I am going away, and you will seek Me, and you will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come.”

(John 8:22) 
So the Jews were saying: “Is He going to kill Himself, because He said, ‘Where I am going, you cannot come’?”

(John 8:23) 
And He said to them: “You are from below; I am from above. You are of this world; I am not of this world.”

(John 8:24) 
Therefore I said to you that you will die in your sins. For if you do not believe that I AM, you will die in your sins.”

(John 8:25) 
So they were saying to Him: “Who are You?” Jesus said to them: “I AM, that is also what I am telling you.”

(John 8:26) 
“I have many things to say and to judge about you; but the One who sent Me is true, and the things that I have heard from Him, these things I speak to the world.”

(John 8:27) 
They did not understand that He was speaking to them about the Father.

(John 8:28) 
So Jesus said to them: “When you lift up the Son of Man, then you will know that I AM, and that I do nothing on My own, but I speak these things just as the Father taught Me.”

(John 8:29) 
And the One who sent Me is with Me. He has not left Me alone, because I always do the things that are pleasing to Him.”

(John 8:30) 
As He spoke these things, many believed in Him.

(John 8:31) 
So Jesus was saying to the Jews who had believed in Him: “If you abide in My word, you are truly My disciples.

(John 8:32) 
And you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.”

(John 8:33) 
They answered Him: “We are Abraham’s descendants, and we have never been slaves to anyone. How do You say, ‘You will be set free’?”

(John 8:34) 
Jesus answered them: “Amen, amen I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave of sin.

(John 8:35) 
Now the slave does not remain in the house forever; the son remains forever.

(John 8:36) 
So if the Son sets you free, you will be truly free.

(John 8:37) 
I know that you are Abraham’s descendants; yet you seek to kill Me, because My word has no place in you.

(John 8:38) 
I speak the things that I have seen with My Father, and you do the things that you have heard from your father.”

(John 8:39) 
They answered and said to Him: “Our father is Abraham.” Jesus said to them: “If you are Abraham’s children, do the works of Abraham.

(John 8:40) 
But now you are seeking to kill Me, a man who has told you the truth, which I heard from God. Abraham did not do this.

(John 8:41) 
You are doing the deeds of your father.” They said to Him: “We were not born of fornication; we have one Father: God.”

(John 8:42) 
So Jesus said to them: “If God were your Father, you would love Me, for I proceeded forth and have come from God, for I did not come on My own, but He sent Me.

(John 8:43) 
Why do you not understand what I say? Because you cannot hear My word.

(John 8:44) 
You are of your father the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning, and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own nature, for he is a liar and the father of lies.

(John 8:45) 
But because I speak the truth, you do not believe Me.

(John 8:46) 
Which of you convicts Me of sin? If I speak the truth, why do you not believe Me?

(John 8:47) 
He who is from God hears the words of God; for this reason you do not hear, because you are not from God.”

(John 8:48) 
The Jews answered Him and said: “Are we not right in saying that You are a Samaritan and have a demon?”

(John 8:49) 
Jesus answered: “I do not have a demon, but I honor My Father, and you dishonor Me.

(John 8:50) 
I do not seek My own glory; there is One who seeks and judges.

(John 8:51) 
Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps My word, he will never see death.”

(John 8:52) 
So the Jews said to Him: “Now we know that You have a demon. Abraham died, and the prophets also; and You say, ‘If anyone keeps My word, he will never taste death.’

(John 8:53) 
Are You greater than our father Abraham, who died? The prophets also died. Who do You make Yourself out to be?”

(John 8:54) 
Jesus answered: “If I glorify Myself, My glory is nothing. It is My Father who glorifies Me, of whom you say, ‘He is our God.’

(John 8:55) 
You have not known Him, but I know Him. If I say that I do not know Him, I will be like you, a liar. But I know Him and I keep His word.

(John 8:56) 
Your father Abraham rejoiced to see My day, and he saw it and was glad.”

(John 8:57) 
So the Jews said to Him: “You are not yet fifty years old, and have You seen Abraham?”

(John 8:58) 
Jesus said to them: “Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was born, I AM.”

(John 8:59) 
Therefore they picked up stones to throw at Him, but Jesus hid Himself and went out of the Temple.

(John 9:1) 
As He was walking, Jesus saw a man who had been blind from birth.

(John 9:2) 
And His disciples asked Him: "Teacher, who sinned, this man, or his parents, that he was born blind?"

(John 9:3) 
Jesus answered: "Neither this man sinned, nor his parents, but the work of God should be manifested in him."

(John 9:4) 
I must do the works of Him who sent Me, while it is day; the night is coming when no one can work.

(John 9:5) 
As long as I am in the world, I am the Light of the world.

(John 9:6) 
Having said these things, He spat on the ground and made clay with the spittle and spread the clay on the blind man's eyes,

(John 9:7) 
and said to him: "Go, wash in the pool of Siloam" (which means, "Sent"). Then he went and washed, and came seeing.

(John 9:8) 
Therefore the neighbors and those who had seen him before when he was begging said: "Isn't this the man who used to sit and beg?"

(John 9:9) 
Some said, "It is he." Others said, "No, but he is like him." He kept saying, "I am he."

(John 9:10) 
Then they said to him, "How were your eyes opened?"

(John 9:11) 
He answered, "The Man called Jesus made clay, and anointed my eyes, and said to me: 'Go to Siloam, and wash.' And I went and washed, and I saw."

(John 9:12) 
They said to him, "Where is He?" He said, "I don't know."

(John 9:13) 
They brought to the Pharisees the man who had once been blind.

(John 9:14) 
And it was the Sabbath on the day when Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes.

(John 9:15) 
Then the Pharisees also asked him again how he had received his sight. He said to them, "He put clay on my eyes, and I washed, and I see."

(John 9:16) 
Some of the Pharisees then said, "This man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath." Others said, "How can a sinner do such signs?" And there was a division among them.

(John 9:17) 
Then they said again to the blind man, "What do you say about Him, since He opened your eyes?"

(John 9:18) 
He answered, "He is a prophet."

(John 9:19) 
Then the Jews did not believe that he had been blind and received sight until they called the parents of the one who had received his sight.

(John 9:20) 
And they asked them, saying, "Is this your son, whom you say was born blind? How then does he now see?"

(John 9:21) 
His parents answered them and said, "We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind; but how he now sees we do not know, nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him; he has come of age; let him speak for himself."

(John 9:22) 
His parents said these things because they feared the Jews; for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess that He was the Christ, he would be put out of the synagogue.

(John 9:23) 
For this reason his parents said, "He is of age; ask him."

(John 9:24) 
So they called the man who had been blind again and said to him, "Give glory to God! We know that this man is a sinner."

(John 9:25) 
Then he answered and said, "Whether He is a sinner, I do not know. One thing I know: that though I was blind, now I see."

(John 9:26) 
Then they said to him, "What did He do to you? How did He open your eyes?"

(John 9:27) 
He answered them, "I have told you already, and you did not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become His disciples?"

(John 9:28) 
Then they reviled him and said, "You are His disciple, but we are disciples of Moses.

(John 9:29) 
We know that God spoke to Moses, but as for this Man, we do not know where He is from."

(John 9:30) 
The man answered and said to them, "This is a remarkable thing, that you do not know where He is from, and yet He opened my eyes!

(John 9:31) 
Now we know that God does not hear sinners; but if anyone is a worshiper of God and does His will, He hears him.

(John 9:32) 
Since the world began it has been unheard of that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind.

(John 9:33) 
If this Man were not from God, He could do nothing."

(John 9:34) 
They answered and said to him, "You were altogether born in sin, and are you teaching us?" And they cast him out.

(John 9:35) 
Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and when He had found him, He said to him, "Do you believe in the Son of God?"

(John 9:36) 
He answered and said, "Who is He, Lord, that I may believe in Him?"

(John 9:37) 
And Jesus said to him, "You have both seen Him, and He is the one who is speaking with you."

(John 9:38) 
And he said, "Lord, I believe!" And he worshiped Him.

(John 9:39) 
And Jesus said, "For judgment I came into this world, that those who do not see may see, and that those who see may become blind."

(John 9:40) 
Then some of the Pharisees who were with Him heard these words, and said to Him, "Are we also blind?"

(John 9:41) 
Jesus said to them, "If you were blind, you would have no sin; but now you say, 'We see.' Therefore your sin remains."

(John 10:1) 
I assure you, anyone who does not enter the sheepfold through the gate but climbs in another way, he is a thief and a robber.

(John 10:2) 
But he who enters by the gate is the shepherd of the sheep.

(John 10:3) 
To him the gatekeeper opens. And the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out.

(John 10:4) 
And when he has brought out his own sheep, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice.

(John 10:5) 
A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him, because they do not know the voice of strangers.

(John 10:6) 
This proverb Jesus spoke to them, but they did not understand what he was saying to them.

(John 10:7) 
Jesus therefore said to them again, “Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the gate for the sheep.

(John 10:8) 
All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them.

(John 10:9) 
I am the gate. Whoever enters through me will be saved, and will come in and go out and find pasture.

(John 10:10) 
The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life, and have it abundantly.

(John 10:11) 
I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.

(John 10:12) 
The hired hand, who is not the shepherd and does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf attacks them and scatters them.

(John 10:13) 
The hired hand flees because he is a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep.

(John 10:14) 
I am the good shepherd. I know my own sheep, and they know me,

(John 10:15) 
just as the Father knows me and I know the Father; and I lay down my life for the sheep.

(John 10:16) 
And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd.

(John 10:17) 
For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may take it again.

(John 10:18) 
No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This charge I have received from my Father.”

(John 10:19) 
There was again a division among the Jews because of these words.

(John 10:20) 
Many of them were saying, “He has a demon, and is mad. Why listen to him?”

(John 10:21) 
Others said, “These are not the words of one who has a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?”

(John 10:22) 
At that time the Feast of Dedication took place at Jerusalem. It was winter,

(John 10:23) 
and Jesus was walking in the temple in the colonnade of Solomon.

(John 10:24) 
So the Jews gathered around him and said to him, “How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly.”

(John 10:25) 
Jesus answered them, “I told you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me,

(John 10:26) 
but you do not believe because you are not among my sheep.

(John 10:27) 
My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me.

(John 10:28) 
I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand.

(John 10:29) 
My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand.

(John 10:30) 
I and the Father are one.”

(John 10:31) 
The Jews picked up stones again to stone him.

(John 10:32) 
Jesus answered them, “I have shown you many good works from the Father; for which of them are you going to stone me?”

(John 10:33) 
The Jews answered him, “It is not for a good work that we are going to stone you but for blasphemy, because you, being a man, make yourself God.”

(John 10:34) 
Jesus answered them, “Is it not written in your Law: ‘I said, you are gods’?

(John 10:35) 
If he called them gods to whom the word of God came—and Scripture cannot be broken—

(John 10:36) 
do you say of him whom the Father consecrated and sent into the world, ‘You are blaspheming,’ because I said, ‘I am the Son of God’?

(John 10:37) 
If I am not doing the works of my Father, then do not believe me;

(John 10:38) 
but if I do them, even though you do not believe me, believe the works, that you may know and understand that the Father is in me and I am in the Father.”

(John 10:39) 
Again they were seeking to arrest him, but he escaped from their hands.

(John 10:40) 
He went away again across the Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing earlier, and there he remained.

(John 10:41) 
And many came to him. They said, “John did no sign, but everything that John said about this man was true.”

(John 10:42) 
And many there believed in him.

(John 11:1) 
There was a sick man: Lazarus, who was from Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha.

(John 11:2) 
Now Mary was the one who had poured perfume on the Lord and dried His feet with her hair. Her brother Lazarus was sick.

(John 11:3) 
So the sisters sent a message to Jesus saying, "Lord, the one You love is sick."

(John 11:4) 
When Jesus heard this, He said, "This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God may be glorified by it."

(John 11:5) 
Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister Mary, and Lazarus.

(John 11:6) 
So, when He heard that Lazarus was sick, He remained for two more days in the place where He was.

(John 11:7) 
Then after that, He said to His disciples, "Let us go into Judea again."

(John 11:8) 
The disciples said to Him, "Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone You, and are You going there again?"

(John 11:9) 
Jesus answered, "Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world.

(John 11:10) 
But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him."

(John 11:11) 
These things He said; and after that He said to them, "Our friend Lazarus sleeps, but I am going to awaken him."

(John 11:12) 
Then His disciples said, "Lord, if he sleeps, he will get well."

(John 11:13) 
However, Jesus spoke of his death, but they thought that He was speaking about the repose of sleep.

(John 11:14) 
Then Jesus said to them plainly, "Lazarus is dead."

(John 11:15) 
And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, that you may believe. But let us go to him."

(John 11:16) 
Then Thomas, called Didymus, said to his fellow disciples, "Let us also go, that we may die with Him."

(John 11:17) 
So Jesus came and found that he had already been in the tomb for four days.

(John 11:18) 
Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen stadia away.

(John 11:19) 
And many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother.

(John 11:20) 
Then Martha, as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming, went to meet Him, but Mary remained in the house.

(John 11:21) 
Then Martha said to Jesus, "Lord, if You had been here, my brother would not have died.

(John 11:22) 
But even now I know that whatever You ask of God, God will give You."

(John 11:23) 
Jesus said to her, "Your brother will rise again."

(John 11:24) 
Martha said to Him, "I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day."

(John 11:25) 
Jesus said to her, "I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in Me, though he may die, he will live.

(John 11:26) 
And whoever lives and believes in Me will never die. Do you believe this?"

(John 11:27) 
She said to Him, "Yes, Lord. I believe that You are the Christ, the Son of God, who has come into the world."

(John 11:28) 
And when she had said this, she went and called Mary her sister secretly, saying, "The Master is here and is calling for you."

(John 11:29) 
As soon as she heard that, she arose quickly and came to Him.

(John 11:30) 
Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha met Him.

(John 11:31) 
Then the Jews who were with her in the house, and were consoling her, when they saw that Mary rose up quickly and went out, followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there.

(John 11:32) 
Then, when Mary came where Jesus was, and saw Him, she fell down at His feet, saying to Him, "Lord, if You had been here, my brother would not have died."

(John 11:33) 
Then Jesus, when He saw her weeping, and the Jews who came with her also weeping, was deeply moved in spirit and troubled.

(John 11:34) 
and said, "Where have you laid him?" They said to Him, "Lord, come and see."

(John 11:35) 
Jesus wept.

(John 11:36) 
Then the Jews said, "See how He loved him!"

(John 11:37) 
But some of them said, "Could not this Man, who opened the eyes of the blind man, have also kept this man from dying?"

(John 11:38) 
Then Jesus, again deeply moved within Himself, came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone was lying against it.

(John 11:39) 
Jesus said, "Take away the stone." Martha, the sister of him who was dead, said to Him, "Lord, by this time there is a stench, for he has been dead four days."

(John 11:40) 
Jesus said to her, "Did I not say to you that if you would believe, you would see the glory of God?"

(John 11:41) 
So they took away the stone. Then Jesus lifted up His eyes and said, "Father, I thank You that You have heard Me.

(John 11:42) 
And I know that You always hear Me, but because of the people who are standing by I said it, that they may believe that You sent Me."

(John 11:43) 
Now when He had said these things, He cried with a loud voice, "Lazarus, come forth!"

(John 11:44) 
And the dead man came forth, bound hand and foot with grave clothes, and his face was wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, "Loose him, and let him go."

(John 11:45) 
Then many of the Jews who had come to Mary, and had seen the things Jesus did, believed in Him.

(John 11:46) 
But some of them went away to the Pharisees and told them the things Jesus had done.

(John 11:47) 
Then the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered a council and said, "What are we doing? For this Man works many signs.

(John 11:48) 
If we let Him alone like this, everyone will believe in Him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation."

(John 11:49) 
And one of them, Caiaphas, who was the high priest that year, said to them, "You know nothing at all,

(John 11:50) 
nor do you consider that it is expedient for us that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation should not perish."

(John 11:51) 
Now this he did not say on his own, but being high priest that year he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation,

(John 11:52) 
and not for the nation only, but that He might also gather together in one the children of God who were scattered abroad.

(John 11:53) 
Therefore, from that day on, they plotted to put Him to death.

(John 11:54) 
So Jesus no longer walked openly among the Jews, but went from there into the country near the wilderness, to a city called Ephraim, and there He remained with His disciples.

(John 11:55) 
And the Passover of the Jews was near, and many went up from the country to Jerusalem before the Passover, to purify themselves.

(John 11:56) 
Then they sought Jesus, and spoke among themselves in the temple, "What do you think—that He will not come to the feast?"

(John 11:57) 
Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given a command that if anyone knew where He was, he should report it, that they might arrest Him.

(John 12:1) 
Six days before Passover, Jesus went to Bethany, where Lazarus had been dead, whom Jesus had raised from the dead.

(John 12:2) 
They prepared a meal for him there, and Martha was serving them, while Lazarus was one of those reclining at table with Him.

(John 12:3) 
Mary took a pound of pure, costly nard perfume, and she anointed Jesus’ feet and dried his feet with her hair. The house then was filled with the sweet scent of the perfume.

(John 12:4) 
Then, one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, who was going to betray him, said,

(John 12:5) 
“Why wasn’t this perfume sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?”

(John 12:6) 
He said this, not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief, and having the money bag, he was taking what was put into it.

(John 12:7) 
So Jesus said: “Let her alone, so she may keep this for the day of my burial. For you always have the poor with you, but you do not always have me.”

(John 12:8) 
Then, a large crowd of the Jews learned that he was there, and they came, not only because of Jesus, but also to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead.

(John 12:9) 
But the chief priests then planned to kill Lazarus too,

(John 12:10) 
because, because of him, many of the Jews were leaving them and believing in Jesus.

(John 12:11) 
The next day, the large crowd that had come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem,

(John 12:12) 
took palm branches and went out to meet him, and they were shouting, “Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, the King of Israel!”

(John 12:13) 
Jesus found a donkey and sat on it, as it is written:

(John 12:14) 
“Do not fear, daughter of Zion: behold, your King comes, sitting on a colt of a donkey.”

(John 12:15) 
His disciples did not understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written about him, and they had done these things for him.

(John 12:16) 
The crowd that was with him then testified that he had called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead.

(John 12:17) 
For this reason, the crowd went out to meet him, because they had heard that he had done this sign.

(John 12:18) 
Then the Pharisees said to one another, “Do you see that we are accomplishing nothing? Behold, the whole world has gone after him.”

(John 12:19) 
Now there were some Greeks among those who had gone up to worship at the feast.

(John 12:20) 
These approached Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and they were asking him, saying: “Sir, we want to see Jesus.”

(John 12:21) 
Philip came and told Andrew, and then Andrew and Philip told Jesus.

(John 12:22) 
Jesus answered them, saying: “The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified.

(John 12:23) 
Amen, amen, I say to you: unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies, it bears much fruit.

(John 12:24) 
Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this world keeps it to eternal life.

(John 12:25) 
If anyone serves me, let him follow me; and where I am, there my servant will also be. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.

(John 12:26) 
Now my soul is troubled, and what shall I say? “Father, save me from this hour.” But for this reason I have come to this hour.

(John 12:27) 
Father, glorify your name.” Then a voice came from heaven: “I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again.”

(John 12:28) 
So the crowd that stood there and heard it was saying that it had thundered. Others were saying, “An angel has spoken to him.”

(John 12:29) 
Jesus answered and said: “This voice did not come for my sake, but for yours.

(John 12:30) 
Now is the judgment of the world; now the prince of this world shall be cast out.

(John 12:31) 
And I, if I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all things to myself.”

(John 12:32) 
He said this, signifying by what kind of death he was going to die.

(John 12:33) 
Then the crowd answered him, “We have heard from the law that Christ remains forever. And how do you say that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man?”

(John 12:34) 
Jesus then said to them: “For a little while longer, the light is among you. Walk while you have the light, so that darkness may not overtake you, and whoever walks in the darkness does not know where he is going.

(John 12:35) 
While you have the light, believe in the light, so that you may become sons of light.” Jesus spoke these words, and he went away and hid himself from them.

(John 12:36) 
Although he had done so many signs before them, they did not believe in him:

(John 12:37) 
so that the word of the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled, which he said: “Lord, who has believed our report, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?”

(John 12:38) 
Therefore, they could not believe, because Isaiah said again:

(John 12:39) 
“He has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts, so that they might not see with their eyes, understand with their heart, and turn back, and I heal them.”

(John 12:40) 
Isaiah said these things when he saw his glory and spoke about him.

(John 12:41) 
Nevertheless, even many of the rulers believed in him, but because of the Pharisees, they did not confess him, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue.

(John 12:42) 
For they loved the glory of men more than the glory of God.

(John 12:43) 
Then Jesus cried out and said: “He who believes in me does not believe in me, but in him who sent me.

(John 12:44) 
And he who sees me sees him who sent me.

(John 12:45) 
I have come as light into the world, so that everyone who believes in me might not remain in darkness.

(John 12:46) 
And if anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him, because I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world.

(John 12:47) 
Whoever rejects me and does not receive my words has one who judges him. The word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day.

(John 12:48) 
For I have not spoken on my own, but the Father who sent me has given me a commandment about what I should say and what I should speak.

(John 12:49) 
And I know that his commandment is eternal life. Therefore, what I speak, I speak as the Father has told me.”

(John 13:1) 
Before the feast of the Passover, Jesus knew that his time had come to depart from this world to the Father. And because He had loved his own who were in the world, He loved them to the very end.

(John 13:2) 
And when supper was finished, since the devil had already put it in the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon’s son, that he should betray Him,

(John 13:3) 
Jesus knew that the Father had given him all things into his hands, and that He had come from God and was going back to God,

(John 13:4) 
He rose from supper, and laid aside his garments; and having taken a towel, He girded himself.

(John 13:5) 
Then he poured water into a basin, and began to wash the feet of the disciples, and to wipe them with the towel with which he was girded.

(John 13:6) 
Then He came to Simon Peter. And Peter said to Him, “Lord, do you wash my feet?”

(John 13:7) 
Jesus answered and said to him, “What I am doing you do not understand now, but you will know it hereafter.”

(John 13:8) 
Peter said to him, “You will never wash my feet.”

(John 13:9) 
Jesus answered him, “If I do not wash you, you have no part with me.”

(John 13:10) 
Simon Peter said to him, “Lord, not only my feet, but also my hands and my head.”

(John 13:11) 
Jesus said to him, “He who has bathed does not need to wash, except for his feet, but is clean all over. And you are clean, but not all.”

(John 13:12) 
For He knew who it was that would betray Him; that is why He said, “You are not all clean.”

(John 13:13) 
When therefore he had washed their feet, and taken his garments, and reclined at table again, he said to them, “Do you know what I have done to you?”

(John 13:14) 
“You call me Teacher and Lord, and you are right; for so I am.”

(John 13:15) 
“If I then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet.”

(John 13:16) 
“For I have given you an example, so that you also should do as I have done to you.”

(John 13:17) 
“Truly, truly, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master; nor is an apostle greater than the one who sent him.”

(John 13:18) 
“If you know these things, you are blessed if you do them.”

(John 13:19) 
“I am not speaking of all of you; I know whom I have chosen. But it is that the scripture may be fulfilled, ‘He who eats my bread has lifted up his heel against me.’”

(John 13:20) 
“I tell you this now, before it happens, that when it does happen you may believe that I am he.”

(John 13:21) 
“Truly, truly, I say to you, he who receives whomever I send, receives me; and he who receives me, receives him who sent me.”

(John 13:22) 
When Jesus had said these things, he was troubled in spirit, and testified, and said, “Truly, truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me.”

(John 13:23) 
The disciples looked at one another, at a loss as to whom he was speaking.

(John 13:24) 
One of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, was reclining at table in Jesus' bosom.

(John 13:25) 
So Simon Peter motioned to him to ask who it was of whom he spoke.

(John 13:26) 
Then leaning back on Jesus' breast, he said to him, “Lord, who is it?”

(John 13:27) 
Jesus answered, “It is he to whom I shall give this morsel when I have dipped it.” So when he had dipped the morsel, he gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot.

(John 13:28) 
After the morsel, Satan entered into him. Jesus therefore said to him, “What you are going to do, do quickly.”

(John 13:29) 
Now no one at the table knew why he said this to him.

(John 13:30) 
Some thought that, because Judas had the money box, Jesus was telling him, “Buy what we need for the feast,” or that he should give something to the poor.

(John 13:31) 
So, after receiving the morsel, he immediately went out. And it was night.

(John 13:32) 
When he had gone out, Jesus said, “Now the Son of man is glorified, and God is glorified in him.”

(John 13:33) 
“If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself, and will glorify him at once.”

(John 13:34) 
“Little children, yet a little while I am with you. You will seek me; and as I said to the Jews, ‘Where I am going you cannot come,’ so now I say to you.”

(John 13:35) 
“A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another; even as I have loved you, that you also love one another.”

(John 13:36) 
“By this all men will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another.”

(John 13:37) 
Simon Peter said to him, “Lord, where are you going?” Jesus answered, “Where I am going you cannot follow me now; but you will follow afterwards.”

(John 13:38) 
Peter said to him, “Lord, why can I not follow you now? I will lay down my life for you.”

(John 13:39) 
Jesus answered, “Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly, I say to you, the cock will not crow, till you have denied me three times.”

(John 14:1) 
Do not let your hearts be troubled. You believe in God, so believe also in me.

(John 14:2) 
My Father's house has many rooms. If it were otherwise, would I have told you that I am going to prepare a place for you?

(John 14:3) 
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, so that where I am, you may be also.

(John 14:4) 
And you know the way where I am going.

(John 14:5) 
Thomas said to him, “Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way?”

(John 14:6) 
Jesus said to him, “I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.

(John 14:7) 
If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on you do know him and have seen him.”

(John 14:8) 
Philip said to him, “Lord, show us the Father, and we will be satisfied.”

(John 14:9) 
Jesus said to him, “Have I been with you so long, and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, ‘Show us the Father’?

(John 14:10) 
Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own, but the Father who dwells in me does his works.

(John 14:11) 
Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of the works themselves.

(John 14:12) 
“Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do, and greater works than these will he do, because I am going to the Father.

(John 14:13) 
Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.

(John 14:14) 
If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it.

(John 14:15) 
“If you love me, you will keep my commandments.

(John 14:16) 
And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, to be with you forever,

(John 14:17) 
even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you.

(John 14:18) 
“I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you.

(John 14:19) 
Yet a little while and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live.

(John 14:20) 
In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you.

(John 14:21) 
Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him.”

(John 14:22) 
Judas (not Iscariot) said to him, “Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us, and not to the world?”

(John 14:23) 
Jesus answered him, “If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him.

(John 14:24) 
Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. And the word that you hear is not mine but the Father’s who sent me.

(John 14:25) 
“These things I have spoken to you while I am still with you.

(John 14:26) 
But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you.

(John 14:27) 
“Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, nor let them be afraid.

(John 14:28) 
You heard me say to you, ‘I am going away, and I will come to you.’ If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I am going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I.

(John 14:29) 
And now I have told you before it takes place, so that when it does take place, you may believe.

(John 14:30) 
I will no longer talk much with you, for the ruler of this world is coming. And he has nothing in me.

(John 14:31) 
But I do as the Father has commanded me, so that the world may know that I love the Father. Rise up, let us go from here.

(John 15:1) 
I am the true vine, and My Father is the farmer.

(John 15:2) 
He cuts off every branch in Me that doesn't produce fruit. And the branches that bear fruit, He prunes so that it may produce more.

(John 15:3) 
You are already clean because of the word I have spoken to you.

(John 15:4) 
Remain in Me, and I will remain in you. A branch cannot bear fruit by itself, it must remain in the vine, so neither can you unless you remain in Me.

(John 15:5) 
I am the vine; you are the branches. Those who remain in Me and I in them produce much fruit, because apart from Me you can do nothing.

(John 15:6) 
If anyone does not remain in Me, they are thrown outside like a branch and wither. Such branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned.

(John 15:7) 
If you remain in Me, and My words remain in you, you can ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you.

(John 15:8) 
My Father is glorified in this: that you bear much fruit, and so prove to be My disciples.

(John 15:9) 
As the Father has loved Me, so have I loved you. Remain in My love.

(John 15:10) 
If you keep My commandments, you will remain in My love, just as I have kept My Father's commandments and remain in His love.

(John 15:11) 
I have told you these things so that My joy may be in you, and that your joy may be complete.

(John 15:12) 
This is My commandment: that you love one another, as I have loved you.

(John 15:13) 
No one has greater love than this: that they lay down their life for their friends.

(John 15:14) 
You are My friends if you do what I command you.

(John 15:15) 
I no longer call you servants, because a servant does not know what his master is doing. But I have called you friends, because I have made known to you everything I have heard from My Father.

(John 15:16) 
You did not choose Me, but I chose you and appointed you to go and bear fruit, fruit that will last, so that whatever you ask the Father in My name, He may give you.

(John 15:17) 
This I command you: that you love one another.

(John 15:18) 
If the world hates you, know that it hated Me before it hated you.

(John 15:19) 
If you belonged to the world, the world would love its own; but because you do not belong to the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, the world hates you.

(John 15:20) 
Remember the word that I said to you: 'A servant is not greater than his master.' If they persecuted Me, they will persecute you also. If they kept My word, they will keep yours also.

(John 15:21) 
But they will do all these things to you on account of My name, because they do not know the One who sent Me.

(John 15:22) 
If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have sin; but now they have no excuse for their sin.

(John 15:23) 
Those who hate Me, hate My Father also.

(John 15:24) 
If I had not done among them the works that no one else did, they would not have sin. But now they have seen and they hate both Me and My Father.

(John 15:25) 
But this is to fulfill the word that is written in their law: 'They hated Me without cause.'

(John 15:26) 
When the Advocate comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth who proceeds from the Father, He will bear witness about Me.

(John 15:27) 
And you also will bear witness, because you have been with Me from the beginning.

(John 16:1) 
I have told you these things so that you do not lose faith.

(John 16:2) 
They will cast you out of the synagogues. Yes, the time is coming when anyone who kills you will think they are offering a service to God.

(John 16:3) 
They will do these things because they have not known the Father, nor Me.

(John 16:4) 
But I have told you these things so that when their hour comes, you may remember that I told you of them.

(John 16:5) 
I did not tell you these things at the beginning, because I was with you.

(John 16:6) 
Now, I am going to the One Who sent Me, and yet not one of you asks Me, 'Where are You going?'

(John 16:7) 
But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your hearts.

(John 16:8) 
But I tell you the truth: It is better for you that I go, for if I do not go, the Advocate will not come to you, but if I go, I will send Him to you.

(John 16:9) 
And when He comes, He will convict the world concerning sin, righteousness, and judgment:

(John 16:10) 
concerning sin, because they have not believed in Me;

(John 16:11) 
concerning righteousness, because I am going to the Father, and you will see Me no more;

(John 16:12) 
and concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged.

(John 16:13) 
I still have many things to tell you, but you cannot bear them now.

(John 16:14) 
But when He, the Spirit of truth, comes, He will guide you into all truth. For He will not speak on His own, but whatever He hears, He will speak, and He will declare to you the things that are to come.

(John 16:15) 
He will glorify Me, because He will take what is Mine and declare it to you.

(John 16:16) 
All that the Father has is Mine; therefore I said that He will take what is Mine and declare it to you.

(John 16:17) 
A little while, and you will see Me no longer, and again a little while, and you will see Me, because I am going to the Father.

(John 16:18) 
Some of His disciples then said to one another, “What does He mean by this that He says to us, ‘A little while, and you will see Me no longer,’ and, ‘Again a little while, and you will see Me,’ and, ‘Because I am going to the Father’?”

(John 16:19) 
So they were saying, “What does He mean by ‘a little while’? We do not know what He is talking about.”

(John 16:20) 
Jesus knew that they wanted to question Him, and He said to them, “Are you discussing this among yourselves, that I said, ‘A little while, and you will not see Me, and again a little while, and you will see Me’?

(John 16:21) 
Truly, truly, I say to you, that you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice; you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will be turned into joy.

(John 16:22) 
When a woman is giving birth, she has sorrow because her hour has come; but when she has given birth to the baby, she no longer remembers the anguish because of the joy that a child has been born into the world.

(John 16:23) 
So also you have sorrow now, but I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and no one will take your joy away from you.

(John 16:24) 
In that day, you will not question Me about anything. Truly, truly, I say to you, if you ask the Father for anything in My name, He will give it to you.

(John 16:25) 
Until now, you have not asked for anything in My name; ask, and you will receive, so that your joy may be made full.

(John 16:26) 
I have spoken to you these things in figures of speech; the hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech, but will tell you plainly of the Father.

(John 16:27) 
In that day you will ask in My name, and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father on your behalf;

(John 16:28) 
for the Father Himself loves you, because you have loved Me and have believed that I came forth from God.

(John 16:29) 
I came from the Father and have come into the world; again, I am leaving the world and going to the Father.

(John 16:30) 
His disciples said, “Now You are speaking plainly and not using any figure of speech.

(John 16:31) 
Now we know that You know all things and have no need for anyone to question You; by this we believe that You came from God.

(John 16:32) 
Jesus answered them, “Do you now believe?

(John 16:33) 
Behold, the hour is coming, and has already come, for you to be scattered, each to his own home, and to leave Me alone; and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with Me.

(John 16:34) 
I have said these things to you, that in Me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have overcome the world.”

(John 17:1) 
After Jesus said these things, He looked up to the universe and said, “Father, the time has come! Glorify Your Son, so that Your Son can glorify You.

(John 17:2) 
You have already given Him authority over all people, so that He might give eternal life to all those whom You have given to Him.

(John 17:3) 
This is eternal life: that they might know You, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom You sent on a mission.

(John 17:4) 
I have glorified You on the earth, by accomplishing the work that You gave Me to do.

(John 17:5) 
And now, Father, glorify Me in Your presence, with the glory that I had with You before the universe existed.

(John 17:6) 
I have revealed Your name to the men whom You gave Me out of the world. They were Yours, and You gave them to Me, and they have kept Your word.

(John 17:7) 
Now they know that everything You have given Me comes from You.

(John 17:8) 
For I have given them the words that You gave Me, and they have received them and truly understood that I came from You, and they have believed that You sent Me.

(John 17:9) 
I pray for them. I do not pray for the world, but for those whom You have given Me, because they are Yours.

(John 17:10) 
All My things are Yours, and Yours are Mine, and I am glorified in them.

(John 17:11) 
I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming to You. Holy Father, keep them in Your name, those whom You have given Me, so that they may be one, as We are.

(John 17:12) 
While I was with them, I kept them in Your name. I guarded those whom You gave Me, and not one of them has been lost except the son of perdition, so that the Scripture might be fulfilled.

(John 17:13) 
But now I am coming to You, and these things I speak in the world, so that they may have My joy fulfilled in themselves.

(John 17:14) 
I have given them Your word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.

(John 17:15) 
I do not pray that You should take them out of the world, but that You should protect them from evil.

(John 17:16) 
They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.

(John 17:17) 
Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth.

(John 17:18) 
As You sent Me into the world, so I have sent them into the world.

(John 17:19) 
And for their sakes, I sanctify Myself, so that they also may be sanctified in truth.

(John 17:20) 
I do not pray for these only, but also for those who will believe in Me through their word,

(John 17:21) 
that they all may be one, as You, Father, are in Me, and I in You, so that they also may be one in Us, so that the world may believe that You sent Me.

(John 17:22) 
And I have given them the glory that You have given Me, so that they may be one, just as We are one.

(John 17:23) 
I in them, and You in Me, so that they may be perfected in one, and that the world may know that You sent Me and that You have loved them, as You have loved Me.

(John 17:24) 
Father, I desire that those whom You have given Me may be with Me where I am, so that they may see My glory that You have given Me, because You loved Me before the foundation of the world.

(John 17:25) 
O righteous Father, the world has not known You, but I have known You, and these have known that You sent Me.

(John 17:26) 
And I have made Your name known to them, and I will make it known, so that the love with which You loved Me may be in them, and I in them.”

(John 18:1) 
After Jesus had said this, he went out with his disciples across the river of Kidron. Where there was a garden, into which he entered, and his disciples.

(John 18:2) 
Now Judas, who was betraying him, knew the place, because Jesus often met there with his disciples.

(John 18:3) 
Then Judas, having received a cohort and officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, came there with lanterns and torches and weapons.

(John 18:4) 
Jesus therefore, knowing all things that would happen to him, went forth and said to them, "Whom are you seeking?"

(John 18:5) 
They answered him, "Jesus of Nazareth." Jesus said to them, "I am." And Judas, who was betraying him, was standing with them.

(John 18:6) 
When therefore he said to them, "I am," they went backward and fell to the ground.

(John 18:7) 
Again therefore he asked them, "Whom are you seeking?" And they said, "Jesus of Nazareth."

(John 18:8) 
Jesus answered, "I told you that I am. If therefore you are seeking me, let these go their way."

(John 18:9) 
That the word might be fulfilled which he said: "I have not lost any of those whom you gave me."

(John 18:10) 
Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear. And the name of the servant was Malchus.

(John 18:11) 
Jesus therefore said to Peter, "Put your sword into the sheath. Shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me?"

(John 18:12) 
Then the cohort, the tribune, and the officers of the Jews, arrested Jesus,

(John 18:13) 
and bound him: and they led him to Annas first, for Annas was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was the high priest that year.

(John 18:14) 
Now Caiaphas was he who had given counsel to the Jews, that it was expedient that one man should die for the people.

(John 18:15) 
And Simon Peter was following Jesus, and another disciple. Now that disciple was known to the high priest, and he went in with Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest.

(John 18:16) 
But Peter was standing at the door outside. Therefore the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the woman who kept the door, and brought Peter in.

(John 18:17) 
Then the servant girl who kept the door said to Peter, "Are you not also one of this man’s disciples?"

(John 18:18) 
He said, "I am not."

(John 18:19) 
Now the servants and the officers were standing at a fire of coals, because it was cold, and they were warming themselves. And Peter was also with them, standing and warming himself.

(John 18:20) 
The high priest therefore questioned Jesus about his disciples and about his doctrine.

(John 18:21) 
Jesus answered him, "I have spoken openly to the world. I always taught in the synagogue and in the temple, where all the Jews gather, and in secret I have spoken nothing.

(John 18:22) 
Why do you question me? Question those who have heard what I have spoken to them. Behold, they know what things I have said."

(John 18:23) 
And when he had said this, one of the officers standing by struck Jesus with a slap, saying, "Do you answer the high priest so?"

(John 18:24) 
Jesus answered him, "If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil; but if well, why do you strike me?"

(John 18:25) 
Then Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas the high priest.

(John 18:26) 
And Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. They said therefore to him, "Are you not also one of his disciples?"

(John 18:27) 
He denied it and said, "I am not."

(John 18:28) 
Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas to the praetorium, and it was morning; and they themselves did not enter into the praetorium, so that they might not be defiled, but that they might eat the Passover.

(John 18:29) 
Pilate therefore went out to them and said, "What accusation do you bring against this man?"

(John 18:30) 
They answered and said to him, "If he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him to you."

(John 18:31) 
Then Pilate said to them, "Take him yourselves, and judge him according to your law." The Jews said therefore to him, "It is not lawful for us to put any man to death."

(John 18:32) 
That the word of Jesus might be fulfilled which he spoke, signifying by what death he would die.

(John 18:33) 
Pilate therefore entered again into the praetorium, and called Jesus, and said to him, "Are you the King of the Jews?"

(John 18:34) 
Jesus answered, "Do you say this of yourself, or have others told you about me?"

(John 18:35) 
Pilate answered, "Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you to me. What have you done?"

(John 18:36) 
Jesus answered, "My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would certainly strive that I should not be delivered to the Jews. But now my kingdom is not from here."

(John 18:37) 
Pilate therefore said to him, "So you are a king?" Jesus answered, "You say that I am a king. For this I was born, and for this I came into the world, that I should bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice."

(John 18:38) 
Pilate said to him, "What is truth?" And when he had said this, he went out again to the Jews and said to them, "I find in him no crime at all."

(John 18:39) 
But it is your custom that I should release one to you at the Passover. Will you therefore that I release to you the King of the Jews?"

(John 18:40) 
Then they cried out again, saying, "Not this man, but Barabbas." Now Barabbas was a robber.

(John 19:1) 
Then Pilate had Jesus flogged.

(John 19:2) 
And the soldiers wove a crown of thorns, placed it on his head, and dressed him in a purple robe.

(John 19:3) 
They approached him and said, "Hail, King of the Jews!" And they struck him.

(John 19:4) 
Pilate went outside again and said to them, "I am bringing him out to you so you may know that I find no fault in him."

(John 19:5) 
Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. Pilate said to them, "Behold the man!"

(John 19:6) 
When the chief priests and the guards saw him, they shouted, "Crucify him! Crucify him!" Pilate said to them, "Take him yourselves and crucify him. I find no fault in him."

(John 19:7) 
The Jews answered him, "We have a law, and according to that law he must die, because he claimed to be the Son of God."

(John 19:8) 
When Pilate heard this, he was even more afraid.

(John 19:9) 
He entered the praetorium again and said to Jesus, "Where are you from?" But Jesus gave him no answer.

(John 19:10) 
So Pilate said to him, "Do you refuse to speak to me? Do you not know that I have power to release you and power to crucify you?"

(John 19:11) 
Jesus answered, "You would have no power over me if it were not given to you from above. Therefore, the one who handed me over to you is guilty of a greater sin."

(John 19:12) 
From then on Pilate tried to release him, but the Jews kept shouting, "If you release this man, you are no friend of Caesar. Everyone who claims to be a king opposes Caesar."

(John 19:13) 
When Pilate heard these words, he brought Jesus outside and sat on the judgment seat at a place called the Pavement, but in Hebrew, Gabbatha.

(John 19:14) 
It was the day of Preparation of the Passover, about noon. Pilate said to the Jews, "Here is your king!"

(John 19:15) 
They shouted, "Take him away! Take him away! Crucify him!" Pilate said to them, "Shall I crucify your king?" The chief priests answered, "We have no king but Caesar."

(John 19:16) 
So he handed him over to them to be crucified. And they took Jesus, and led him away.

(John 19:17) 
Bearing his own cross, he went out to the place called the Place of the Skull, which in Hebrew is called Golgotha.

(John 19:18) 
There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on each side, with Jesus in the middle.

(John 19:19) 
Pilate also wrote a title and put it on the cross. It read: "Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews."

(John 19:20) 
Many of the Jews read this title, because the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Hebrew, Latin, and Greek.

(John 19:21) 
So the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, "Do not write 'King of the Jews,' but that he said, 'I am King of the Jews.'"

(John 19:22) 
Pilate answered, "What I have written, I have written."

(John 19:23) 
When the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his clothes and divided them into four shares, one for each soldier, and also his tunic. The tunic was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom.

(John 19:24) 
So they said to one another, "Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it to see whose it will be," so that the scripture might be fulfilled which says: "They divided my garments among them, and for my vesture they cast lots." This is what the soldiers did.

(John 19:25) 
Standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene.

(John 19:26) 
When Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, "Woman, behold, your son!"

(John 19:27) 
Then he said to the disciple, "Behold, your mother!" And from that hour the disciple took her into his own home.

(John 19:28) 
After this, when Jesus knew that all was now finished, he said, to fulfill the scripture, "I am thirsty."

(John 19:29) 
A jar full of sour wine stood there, so they put a sponge full of the sour wine on a branch of hyssop and held it to his mouth.

(John 19:30) 
When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, "It is finished." And bowing his head, he gave up his spirit.

(John 19:31) 
The Jews therefore, because it was the day of Preparation, so that the bodies should not remain on the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath was a high day), asked Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away.

(John 19:32) 
So the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first, and of the other who was crucified with him.

(John 19:33) 
But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs.

(John 19:34) 
But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water flowed out.

(John 19:35) 
He who saw it has borne witness, and his testimony is true. He knows that he tells the truth, so that you also may believe.

(John 19:36) 
For these things happened so that the scripture might be fulfilled: "Not a bone of him will be broken."

(John 19:37) 
And again another scripture says, "They will look on him whom they pierced."

(John 19:38) 
After these things, Joseph of Arimathea, who was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus. And Pilate gave him permission. So he came and took away the body of Jesus.

(John 19:39) 
Nicodemus also came, the one who had first come to Jesus by night, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred pounds.

(John 19:40) 
So they took the body of Jesus and wrapped it in linen cloths with the spices, according to the burial custom of the Jews.

(John 19:41) 
Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb where no one had ever been laid.

(John 19:42) 
So because of the Jewish day of Preparation, since the tomb was nearby, they laid Jesus there.

(John 20:1) 
On the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early, while it was still dark. And she saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb.

(John 20:2) 
She ran to Simon Peter and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and said to them, “They have taken the Lord from the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him.”

(John 20:3) 
Peter therefore went out with the other disciple, and they were going toward the tomb.

(John 20:4) 
And they both ran together, and the other disciple outran Peter and came first to the tomb.

(John 20:5) 
And stooping down, he saw the linen cloths lying there, but he did not go in.

(John 20:6) 
Then Simon Peter came, following him, and went into the tomb. And he saw the linen cloths lying,

(John 20:7) 
and the napkin that had been on his head, not lying with the linen cloths but rolled up in a place by itself.

(John 20:8) 
Then the other disciple, who had come first to the tomb, also went in, and he saw and believed.

(John 20:9) 
For as yet they did not know the Scripture, that he must rise from the dead.

(John 20:10) 
Then the disciples went back to their homes.

(John 20:11) 
But Mary was standing outside the tomb, weeping. As she wept, she bent over to look into the tomb,

(John 20:12) 
and she saw two angels in white, sitting where the body of Jesus had lain, one at the head and the other at the feet.

(John 20:13) 
And they said to her, “Woman, why are you weeping?” She said to them, “They have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him.”

(John 20:14) 
Having said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing, but she did not know that it was Jesus.

(John 20:15) 
Jesus said to her, “Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking?” Supposing him to be the gardener, she said to him, “Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away.”

(John 20:16) 
Jesus said to her, “Mary.” She turned and said to him in Hebrew, “Rabboni!” (which means Teacher).

(John 20:17) 
Jesus said to her, “Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father; but go to my brothers and say to them, ‘I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God.’”

(John 20:18) 
Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples, “I have seen the Lord,” and that he had said these things to her.

(John 20:19) 
On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being shut where the disciples were, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them, and said to them, “Peace be with you.”

(John 20:20) 
When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord.

(John 20:21) 
Jesus therefore said to them again, “Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you.”

(John 20:22) 
And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, “Receive the Holy Spirit.

(John 20:23) 
If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them; if you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld.”

(John 20:24) 
Now Thomas, one of the twelve, called the Twin, was not with them when Jesus came.

(John 20:25) 
So the other disciples told him, “We have seen the Lord.” But he said to them, “Unless I see in his hands the mark of the nails, and place my finger into the mark of the nails, and place my hand into his side, I will never believe.”

(John 20:26) 
Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. Jesus came, the doors being closed, and stood in the midst, and said, “Peace be with you.”

(John 20:27) 
Then he said to Thomas, “Put your finger here, and see my hands; and put out your hand, and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe.”

(John 20:28) 
Thomas answered him, “My Lord and my God!”

(John 20:29) 
Jesus said to him, “Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed.”

(John 20:30) 
Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book;

(John 20:31) 
but these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name.

(John 21:1) 
After these things, Jesus again showed himself to his disciples at the Sea of Tiberias, and he showed himself in this way.

(John 21:2) 
Simon Peter was present, and Thomas, who is called Didymus, and Nathanael, who was from Cana of Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples.

(John 21:3) 
Simon Peter said to them, "I am going fishing." They said to him, "We are coming with you." They went out and entered the boat, and that night they caught nothing.

(John 21:4) 
But when the morning was come, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples did not know that it was Jesus.

(John 21:5) 
Jesus therefore said to them, "Children, have you any meat?" They answered him, "No."

(John 21:6) 
He said to them, "Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find." They cast it therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes.

(John 21:7) 
That disciple therefore whom Jesus loved said to Peter, "It is the Lord." Simon Peter, when he heard that it was the Lord, girded his tunic about him (for he was naked) and cast himself into the sea.

(John 21:8) 
But the other disciples came in the boat (for they were not far from the land, but as it were two hundred cubits), drawing the net of fishes.

(John 21:9) 
When therefore they had come to land, they saw a fire of coals there, and fish laid thereon, and bread.

(John 21:10) 
Jesus said to them, "Bring of the fishes which you have now caught."

(John 21:11) 
Simon Peter went up and drew the net to land, full of great fishes, one hundred and fifty-three. And although there were so many, the net was not broken.

(John 21:12) 
Jesus says to them, "Come and dine." And none of those who were reclining dared to ask him, "Who are you?" knowing that it was the Lord.

(John 21:13) 
And Jesus came, and took bread, and gave to them, and fish in like manner. This is now the third time that Jesus was manifested to his disciples, after he was risen from the dead.

(John 21:14) 
When therefore they had dined, Jesus says to Simon Peter, "Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these?" He says to him, "Yes, Lord, you know that I love you." He says to him, "Feed my lambs."

(John 21:15) 
He says to him again, "Simon, son of John, do you love me?" He says to him, "Yes, Lord, you know that I love you." He says to him, "Feed my lambs."

(John 21:16) 
He says to him the third time, "Simon, son of John, do you love me?" Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, "Do you love me?" And he said to him, "Lord, you know all things; you know that I love you." He says to him, "Feed my sheep."

(John 21:17) 
Amen, amen I say to you, when you were younger, you girded yourself, and walked where you would; but when you are old, you will stretch forth your hands, and another will gird you, and lead you where you do not want to go."

(John 21:18) 
Now he said this, signifying by what death he should glorify God. And when he had said this, he says to him, "Follow me."

(John 21:19) 
Peter turning about, saw that disciple whom Jesus loved following, who also leaned on his breast at supper, and said, "Lord, who is he that betrays you?"

(John 21:20) 
Peter therefore seeing him, says to Jesus, "Lord, and what of this man?"

(John 21:21) 
Jesus says to him, "So I will have him to remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow me."

(John 21:22) 
This saying therefore went abroad among the brethren, that that disciple should not die. And Jesus did not say to him, "He shall not die"; but, "So I will have him to remain until I come, what is that to you?"

(John 21:23) 
This is the disciple who gives testimony of these things, and has written these things, and we know that his testimony is true.

(John 21:24) 
But there are also many other things which Jesus did; which, if they were written every one, the world itself, I think, would not be able to contain the books that should be written.