(Acts 1:1) 
My first account, O Theophilus, described everything that Jesus began to do and to teach,

(Acts 1:2) 
until the very day when, after giving instructions to the apostles whom he had chosen through the Holy Spirit, he was taken up to Heaven.

(Acts 1:3) 
To them he also presented himself alive after his passion by many proofs, appearing to them during forty days and speaking about the kingdom of God.

(Acts 1:4) 
And while staying with them, he ordered them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which, he said, “you heard from me;

(Acts 1:5) 
for John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now.”

(Acts 1:6) 
So when they had come together, they asked him, “Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel?”

(Acts 1:7) 
He said to them, “It is not for you to know times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority.

(Acts 1:8) 
But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth.”

(Acts 1:9) 
And when he had said these things, as they were looking on, he was taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight.

(Acts 1:10) 
And as they were gazing into heaven as he went, behold, two men stood by them in white robes,

(Acts 1:11) 
and said, “Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus, who was taken up from you into heaven, will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven.”

(Acts 1:12) 
Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey away.

(Acts 1:13) 
And when they had entered, they went up to the upper room, where they were staying, Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus and Simon the Zealot and Judas the son of James.

(Acts 1:14) 
All these with one accord were devoting themselves to prayer, together with the women and Mary the mother of Jesus, and his brothers.

(Acts 1:15) 
In those days Peter stood up among the brothers (the company of persons was in all about 120) and said,

(Acts 1:16) 
“Brothers, the Scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke beforehand by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who was guide to those who arrested Jesus.

(Acts 1:17) 
For he was numbered among us and was allotted his share in this ministry.”

(Acts 1:18) 
Now this man acquired a field with the reward of his wickedness, and falling headlong, he burst open in the middle and all his bowels gushed out.

(Acts 1:19) 
And it became known to all the residents of Jerusalem, so that the field was called in their own language Akeldama, that is, Field of Blood.

(Acts 1:20) 
For it is written in the book of Psalms, ‘May his camp become desolate, and let there be no one to dwell in it,’ and ‘May another take his office.’

(Acts 1:21) 
So one of the men who have accompanied us during all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us,

(Acts 1:22) 
beginning from the baptism of John until the day when he was taken up from us—one of these men must become with us a witness to his resurrection.”

(Acts 1:23) 
And they put forward two, Joseph called Barsabbas, who was also called Justus, and Matthias.

(Acts 1:24) 
And they prayed and said, “You, Lord, who know the hearts of all, show which one of these two you have chosen

(Acts 1:25) 
to take the place in this ministry and apostleship from which Judas turned aside to go to his own place.”

(Acts 1:26) 
And they cast lots for them, and the lot fell on Matthias, and he was added to the eleven apostles.

(Acts 2:1) 
When the day of Pentecost arrived, everyone was together in the same place:

(Acts 2:2) 
Then, suddenly, there was a sound that came from the sky, like a rushing, violent wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting.

(Acts 2:3) 
Tongues, divided like flames of fire, appeared to them, and settled on each of them.

(Acts 2:4) 
All were filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak in different languages, as the Holy Spirit enabled them to speak.

(Acts 2:5) 
Now there were Jews living in Jerusalem, devout men from every nation under the sky.

(Acts 2:6) 
At this sound, a crowd gathered and was confused, because each one heard them speaking in his own language.

(Acts 2:7) 
They were astonished and amazed, saying, “Are not all these who are speaking Galileans?

(Acts 2:8) 
“And how is it that we hear, each in our own language in which we were born?

(Acts 2:9) 
Parthians, Medes, and Elamites, and the residents of Mesopotamia, Judea, and Cappadocia, Pontus, and Asia,

(Acts 2:10) 
Phrygia, and Pamphylia, Egypt, and the regions of Libya near Cyrene, and visitors from Rome,

(Acts 2:11) 
both Jews and converts to Judaism, Cretans and Arabs; we hear them speaking about the great works of God in our own tongues.”

(Acts 2:12) 
All were amazed and perplexed, saying to one another, “What does this mean?”

(Acts 2:13) 
But others, mocking, said, “They are filled with sweet wine.”

(Acts 2:14) 
Then Peter stood up with the eleven, raised his voice, and addressed them: “Men of Judea and all who live in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and give ear to my words:

(Acts 2:15) 
“For these people are not drunk, as you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day.

(Acts 2:16) 
“No, this is what was spoken through the prophet Joel:

(Acts 2:17) 
‘In the last days, God says, I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams.

(Acts 2:18) 
‘Even on my male servants and female servants in those days, I will pour out my Spirit, and they shall prophesy.

(Acts 2:19) 
‘And I will show wonders in the sky above, and signs on the earth below: blood, and fire, and a cloud of smoke.

(Acts 2:20) 
‘The sun will be turned to darkness, and the moon to blood, before the coming of the great and glorious day of the Lord.

(Acts 2:21) 
‘And it will be that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.’

(Acts 2:22) 
“Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus the Nazarene, a man attested to you by God with mighty works and wonders and signs, which God worked through him in your midst, as you yourselves know—

(Acts 2:23) 
this man, delivered up by the set plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified and killed by the hands of those outside the law.

(Acts 2:24) 
“But God raised him up, releasing him from the pains of death, because it was impossible for him to be held in its power.

(Acts 2:25) 
“For David says concerning him, ‘I saw the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand, so that I will not be shaken.

(Acts 2:26) 
‘Therefore my heart was glad, and my tongue rejoiced; moreover, my flesh will also dwell in hope.

(Acts 2:27) 
‘For you will not abandon my soul in Hades, nor will you let your Holy One see corruption.

(Acts 2:28) 
‘You made known to me the ways of life; you will fill me with joy with your presence.’

(Acts 2:29) 
“Brothers, I may say to you confidently of the patriarch David that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day.

(Acts 2:30) 
“Being therefore a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that he would set one of his descendants on his throne,

(Acts 2:31) 
he foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, that he was not abandoned in Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption.

(Acts 2:32) 
“This Jesus God raised up, and of that we all are witnesses.

(Acts 2:33) 
“Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing.

(Acts 2:34) 
“For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he says, ‘The Lord said to my Lord: Sit at my right hand,

(Acts 2:35) 
‘until I make your enemies your footstool.’

(Acts 2:36) 
“Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made him both Lord and Christ—this Jesus whom you crucified.”

(Acts 2:37) 
Now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, “Brothers, what are we to do?”

(Acts 2:38) 
And Peter said to them, “Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.

(Acts 2:39) 
“For the promise is to you and to your children and to all those far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself.”

(Acts 2:40) 
And with many other words he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, “Save yourselves from this crooked generation.”

(Acts 2:41) 
So those who received his word were baptized, and that day about three thousand souls were added.

(Acts 2:42) 
And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers.

(Acts 2:43) 
And fear came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles. And all who believed were together and had all things in common.

(Acts 2:44) 
And all who believed were together and had all things in common.

(Acts 2:45) 
And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need.

(Acts 2:46) 
And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they partook of food with glad and generous hearts,

(Acts 2:47) 
praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved.

(Acts 3:1) 
Peter and John were going into the temple during the ninth hour of prayer.

(Acts 3:2) 
A certain man, who was lame from birth, was being carried in: they put him every day at the gate of the temple, which is called Beautiful, so that he might ask for alms from those going into the temple.

(Acts 3:3) 
When he saw Peter and John beginning to enter the temple, he asked that he might receive alms.

(Acts 3:4) 
But Peter, with John, looked intently at him, saying, “Look at us.”

(Acts 3:5) 
And he paid attention to them, hoping that he would receive something from them.

(Acts 3:6) 
But Peter said, “I have neither silver nor gold, but what I have, I give to you. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk.”

(Acts 3:7) 
And having taken him by the right hand, he raised him up. And immediately his feet and ankles were strengthened.

(Acts 3:8) 
And leaping up, he stood, and walked, and entered with them into the temple, walking and leaping, and praising God.

(Acts 3:9) 
And all the people saw him walking and praising God.

(Acts 3:10) 
And they recognized him as the one who used to sit begging at the Beautiful Gate of the temple, and they were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him.

(Acts 3:11) 
And while he was holding Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the portico, which is called Solomon’s, astonished.

(Acts 3:12) 
But when Peter saw this, he responded to the people: “Men of Israel, why are you amazed at this? Or why do you stare at us, as though by our own power or piety we had made this man walk?

(Acts 3:13) 
The God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified His Son Jesus, whom you delivered up and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he had decided to release Him.

(Acts 3:14) 
But you denied the Holy and Righteous One, and asked that a murderer be granted to you,

(Acts 3:15) 
and you killed the Author of life, whom God raised from the dead, to which we are witnesses.

(Acts 3:16) 
And on the basis of faith in His name, His name has strengthened this man whom you see and know. And the faith that comes through Him has given the man this complete healing in the presence of you all.

(Acts 3:17) 
And now, brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance, as did also your leaders.

(Acts 3:18) 
But God fulfilled what He foretold by the mouth of all the prophets, that His Christ would suffer.

(Acts 3:19) 
Therefore, repent and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out,

(Acts 3:20) 
so that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, and that He may send Jesus Christ, who was preached to you,

(Acts 3:21) 
whom heaven must receive until the times of the restoration of all things, which God spoke about by the mouth of His holy prophets from ancient times.

(Acts 3:22) 
For Moses said, “The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among your brothers. You must listen to Him in everything He tells you.

(Acts 3:23) 
And it will be that every soul that does not listen to that prophet will be utterly destroyed from the people.”

(Acts 3:24) 
And all the prophets from Samuel and those who followed, as many as have spoken, have also foretold these days.

(Acts 3:25) 
You are the children of the prophets, and of the covenant that God made with your fathers, saying to Abraham, ‘And in your seed all the families of the earth will be blessed.’

(Acts 3:26) 
To you first, God, having raised up His Son, sent Him to bless you by turning each of you from your wicked ways.”

(Acts 4:1) 
While Peter and John were speaking to the crowd, the priests and the captain of the temple guard and the Sadducees approached them,

(Acts 4:2) 
they were angry that Peter and John were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection from the dead,

(Acts 4:3) 
and they seized them and put them in prison until the next day, because it was already evening.

(Acts 4:4) 
However, many of those who heard the message believed, and the number of men came to about five thousand.

(Acts 4:5) 
On the next day, the rulers, elders, and scribes gathered in Jerusalem:

(Acts 4:6) 
Annas the high priest, Caiaphas, John, Alexander, and all those who were of the priestly race.

(Acts 4:7) 
And putting Peter and John in the middle, they questioned them: “By what power or by what name did you do this?”

(Acts 4:8) 
Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them: “Leaders of the people and elders,

(Acts 4:9) 
if we are being examined today about a good deed done to a weak man, and by what means he was healed,

(Acts 4:10) 
then know this, you and all the people of Israel: It is by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified and whom God raised from the dead, that this man is standing before you healed.

(Acts 4:11) 
This is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders, and has become the cornerstone:

(Acts 4:12) 
And there is salvation in no one else, because there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved.”

(Acts 4:13) 
Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and realized that they were uneducated men, they were astonished, and they recognized that they had been with Jesus.

(Acts 4:14) 
And seeing the man who had been healed standing with them, they had nothing to say against it.

(Acts 4:15) 
But when they had ordered them to leave the council, they conferred with one another, saying:

(Acts 4:16) 
“What are we going to do with these men? For a notable sign has been done through them, which is obvious to all who dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it.

(Acts 4:17) 
But so that it may spread no further among the people, let us warn them that they speak no more to anyone in this name.”

(Acts 4:18) 
So they called them and commanded them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus.

(Acts 4:19) 
But Peter and John answered them, “Judge for yourselves whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than to God.

(Acts 4:20) 
For we cannot help but speak about what we have seen and heard.”

(Acts 4:21) 
So when they had further threatened them, they let them go, because they could not find any way to punish them, on account of the people, because all were glorifying God for what had been done.

(Acts 4:22) 
For the man on whom this miracle of healing had been performed was over forty years old.

(Acts 4:23) 
When they were released, they went to their own people and reported everything that the chief priests and the elders had said to them.

(Acts 4:24) 
And when they heard it, with one accord they raised their voices to God and said: “Lord, you are the one who made the universe, the earth, the sea, and everything in them.

(Acts 4:25) 
By the Holy Spirit you said through the mouth of our father David, your servant: ‘Why did the nations rage, and the peoples devise empty things?

(Acts 4:26) 
The kings of the earth rose up, and the rulers gathered together against the Lord and against His Christ.’

(Acts 4:27) 
For truly in this city there were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel,

(Acts 4:28) 
to do whatever your hand and your plan had predestined to happen.

(Acts 4:29) 
And now, Lord, look upon their threats and grant to your servants to speak your word with all boldness,

(Acts 4:30) 
while you stretch out your hand to heal, and signs and wonders are performed through the name of your holy servant Jesus.”

(Acts 4:31) 
And when they had prayed, the place in which they were gathered was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the word of God with boldness.

(Acts 4:32) 
Now the multitude of those who believed were of one heart and soul, and no one claimed that anything of what he possessed was his own, but they held everything in common.

(Acts 4:33) 
And with great power the apostles gave testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all.

(Acts 4:34) 
For there was not anyone needy among them, because all who owned land or houses sold them and brought the proceeds of what was sold,

(Acts 4:35) 
and laid it at the apostles’ feet. And distribution was made to each as any had need.

(Acts 4:36) 
Now Joseph, whom the apostles called Barnabas (which means, Son of encouragement), a Levite, a native of Cyprus,

(Acts 4:37) 
having a field, sold it and brought the money and laid it at the apostles’ feet.

(Acts 5:1) 
Then Peter rose up and said, “Brothers, listen. God chose me to preach the Gospel to the Gentiles, so they could hear and believe.”

(Acts 5:2) 
And God, who knows the mind and heart of every man, also gave the Holy Spirit to them, just as He did to us,

(Acts 5:3) 
making no distinction between us, since He purified their hearts through faith.

(Acts 5:4) 
So, why do you now put God to the test, placing a burden on the necks of these disciples which neither we nor our fathers have been able to carry?

(Acts 5:5) 
But we believe it is by the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ that we are saved, as they are.”

(Acts 5:6) 
And all the assembly of the apostles remained silent. They were listening to Barnabas and Paul as they told of the wonders and signs God had worked through them among the Gentiles.

(Acts 5:7) 
After they were done speaking, James addressed the assembly, saying, “Brothers, listen to me.

(Acts 5:8) 
Simeon has related how God first showed His concern by gathering a people for his own name out of the Gentiles.

(Acts 5:9) 
And the words of the prophets agree with this, as it is written:

(Acts 5:10) 
“After this I will return and rebuild the fallen house of David; I will rebuild its ruins and restore it,

(Acts 5:11) 
so that the rest of humanity may seek the Lord, including all the Gentiles over whom my name has been proclaimed.”

(Acts 5:12) 
God has shown us this from the beginning of the world.

(Acts 5:13) 
Therefore, it is my judgment that we should not make it difficult for those Gentiles who are turning to God,

(Acts 5:14) 
but we should instead write to them to abstain from things polluted by idols, from unlawful marriage, from the meat of strangled animals, and from blood.

(Acts 5:15) 
For from ancient times Moses has had those who proclaim him in every town, as he is read every Sabbath in the synagogues.”

(Acts 5:16) 
Then the apostles and the elders, with the whole church, decided to send men chosen from among them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas. They chose Judas, called Barsabbas, and Silas, leading men among the brothers.

(Acts 5:17) 
They sent the following letter by their hand: “The apostles and the elders, your brothers, to the brothers in Antioch, Syria, and Cilicia, who are Gentiles: Greetings.

(Acts 5:18) 
We have heard that some of us went out from us without our authorization. They troubled your souls with what they said and upset you, telling you that you must be circumcised and keep the law. We gave them no such instructions.

(Acts 5:19) 
So we all agreed to choose men to send to you, along with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,

(Acts 5:20) 
men who have risked their lives for the sake of our Lord Jesus Christ.

(Acts 5:21) 
We have therefore sent Judas and Silas, who will also tell you the same things by word of mouth.

(Acts 5:22) 
For it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to place no further burden on you than these essential things:

(Acts 5:23) 
that you abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols, from blood, from the meat of strangled animals, and from unlawful marriage. If you keep yourselves from these things, you will do well. Farewell.”

(Acts 5:24) 
So they left, went down to Antioch, and gathered the whole assembly. Then they delivered the letter.

(Acts 5:25) 
When they read it, they rejoiced over the encouragement it provided.

(Acts 5:26) 
Judas and Silas, being prophets themselves, encouraged the brothers with many words and strengthened them.

(Acts 5:27) 
After they spent some time there, they were sent off with peace by the brothers to those who had sent them.

(Acts 5:28) 
But Silas decided to remain there.

(Acts 5:29) 
Paul and Barnabas remained in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord, along with many others.

(Acts 5:30) 
After some time, Paul said to Barnabas, “Let us go back and visit the brothers in every town where we have preached the word of the Lord, and see how they are doing.”

(Acts 5:31) 
Barnabas wanted to take John, called Mark, along with them.

(Acts 5:32) 
But Paul didn’t think it was right to take him, because he had deserted them in Pamphylia and hadn’t accompanied them in their work.

(Acts 5:33) 
There was a sharp disagreement, so that they separated from each other, and Barnabas took Mark with him and sailed to Cyprus.

(Acts 5:34) 
Paul chose Silas and left, commended by the brothers to the grace of God.

(Acts 5:35) 
He traveled through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the churches.

(Acts 6:1) 
Now, in those days, as the number of disciples grew, a complaint arose among the Hellenists against the Hebrews, because their widows were being neglected in the daily distribution.

(Acts 6:2) 
The Twelve summoned the whole group of disciples and said: “It is not right for us to neglect the word of God in order to serve tables.

(Acts 6:3) 
Therefore, brothers, select seven men from among you, of good repute, full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom, whom we may appoint for this task.

(Acts 6:4) 
But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the word.”

(Acts 6:5) 
This proposal pleased the whole group, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and the Holy Spirit, along with Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicolaus, a proselyte from Antioch.

(Acts 6:6) 
These they presented to the apostles, and after they prayed, they laid their hands on them.

(Acts 6:7) 
And the word of God continued to spread. The number of the disciples in Jerusalem increased greatly, and a great many of the priests were becoming obedient to the faith.

(Acts 6:8) 
Now Stephen, full of grace and power, was working great wonders and signs among the people.

(Acts 6:9) 
But some of those who belonged to the Synagogue of the Freedmen (as it was called), and of the Cyrenians, and of the Alexandrians, and those from Cilicia and Asia, rose up and disputed with Stephen.

(Acts 6:10) 
And they could not withstand the wisdom and the Spirit with which he was speaking.

(Acts 6:11) 
Then they secretly instigated men to say, “We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses and God.”

(Acts 6:12) 
And they stirred up the people, the elders, and the scribes; and they came upon him and seized him and brought him before the council.

(Acts 6:13) 
They set up false witnesses who said, “This man never stops speaking against this holy place and the law.

(Acts 6:14) 
For we have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place and will change the customs that Moses delivered to us.”

(Acts 6:15) 
And gazing at him, all who sat in the council saw that his face was like the face of an angel.

(Acts 7:1) 
The high priest then said: “Are these things so?”

(Acts 7:2) 
And Stephen said: "Brothers and fathers, listen. The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham while he was in Mesopotamia, before he went to live in Charran.

(Acts 7:3) 
And God said to him: 'Leave your land and your family, and come to the land that I will show you.'

(Acts 7:4) 
Then Abraham went out from the land of the Chaldeans, and lived in Charran. And from there, after his father died, God brought him into this land, where you now live.

(Acts 7:5) 
And God gave him no inheritance in it, not even a foot of land. But God promised to give it to him as a possession, and to his descendants after him, even though Abraham had no son then.

(Acts 7:6) 
And God spoke: 'His descendants will be strangers in a foreign land, and they will be enslaved and mistreated for four hundred years.'

(Acts 7:7) 
'But I will judge the nation that they will serve,' God said. 'And after that, they will come out and serve Me in this place.'

(Acts 7:8) 
And God gave Abraham the covenant of circumcision. And so Abraham fathered Isaac, and Abraham circumcised Isaac on the eighth day. And Isaac fathered Jacob, and Jacob fathered the twelve patriarchs.

(Acts 7:9) 
And the patriarchs, jealous of Joseph, sold him into Egypt, but God was with him,

(Acts 7:10) 
and rescued him from all his tribulations. And God gave Joseph favor and wisdom in the sight of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. And Pharaoh made Joseph governor over Egypt and over all his household.

(Acts 7:11) 
Now a famine came upon all of Egypt and Canaan, and there was great hardship, and our fathers could not find food.

(Acts 7:12) 
But when Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt, he sent our fathers there first.

(Acts 7:13) 
And on the second trip, Joseph was recognized by his brothers, and Joseph's family was revealed to Pharaoh.

(Acts 7:14) 
So Joseph sent for his father Jacob, and for his whole family, seventy-five people in all.

(Acts 7:15) 
So Jacob went down to Egypt, and he died there, as did our fathers.

(Acts 7:16) 
And they were brought back to Shechem, and placed in the tomb that Abraham had bought for a sum of silver from the sons of Hamor, the son of Shechem.

(Acts 7:17) 
But as the time drew near for the fulfillment of the promise that God had made to Abraham, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt,

(Acts 7:18) 
until another king arose in Egypt, who did not know Joseph.

(Acts 7:19) 
This king, scheming against our race, mistreated our fathers, and forced them to abandon their infants, so that they would not be kept alive.

(Acts 7:20) 
It was at this time that Moses was born, and he was pleasing to God. And Moses was nourished for three months in his father's house.

(Acts 7:21) 
But when Moses was abandoned, Pharaoh's daughter took him up and raised him as her own son.

(Acts 7:22) 
And Moses was educated in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was powerful in his words and in his deeds.

(Acts 7:23) 
Now when Moses was forty years old, he decided to visit his brothers, the sons of Israel.

(Acts 7:24) 
And when he saw one of them being wronged, Moses defended him, and avenged the one who was being oppressed by striking down the Egyptian.

(Acts 7:25) 
Moses thought that his brothers would understand that God was giving them salvation by his hand, but they did not understand.

(Acts 7:26) 
And on the next day Moses appeared to them as they were fighting, and he tried to reconcile them in peace, saying: 'Men, you are brothers! Why do you wrong each other?'

(Acts 7:27) 
But the one who was wronging his neighbor pushed him away, saying: 'Who made you a ruler and a judge over us?'

(Acts 7:28) 
'Do you want to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday?'

(Acts 7:29) 
Then Moses fled at this word, and became a stranger in the land of Midian, where he fathered two sons.

(Acts 7:30) 
And when forty years were completed, an Angel appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai, in a flame of fire from a bush.

(Acts 7:31) 
When Moses saw the vision, he marveled at it. And as he approached to examine it, the voice of the Lord came to him,

(Acts 7:32) 
'I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.' But Moses, trembling, did not dare to consider it.

(Acts 7:33) 
And the Lord said to him: 'Take off the sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy ground.'

(Acts 7:34) 
'I have surely seen the affliction of My people who are in Egypt, and I have heard their groaning, and I have come down to deliver them. And now come, I will send you to Egypt.'

(Acts 7:35) 
This Moses, whom they rejected, saying: 'Who made you a ruler and a judge?' God sent Moses as both a ruler and a redeemer by the hand of the Angel who appeared to him in the bush.

(Acts 7:36) 
Moses led them out, doing wonders and signs in the land of Egypt, and in the Red Sea, and in the wilderness for forty years.

(Acts 7:37) 
This is that Moses who said to the sons of Israel: 'God will raise up for you a prophet from among your brothers, just like me.'

(Acts 7:38) 
This is the Moses who was in the assembly in the wilderness with the Angel who spoke to him on Mount Sinai, and with our fathers; Moses received living words to give to us.

(Acts 7:39) 
But our fathers would not obey Moses. They rejected him, and in their hearts they turned back to Egypt,

(Acts 7:40) 
saying to Aaron: 'Make us gods to go before us, for as for this Moses, who led us out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him.'

(Acts 7:41) 
And they made a calf in those days, and offered a sacrifice to the idol, and were rejoicing in the works of their own hands.

(Acts 7:42) 
But God turned away from them and gave them over to serve the host of heaven, as it is written in the book of the prophets: 'Did you offer Me sacrifices and offerings during the forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel?'

(Acts 7:43) 
'And you took up the tent of Moloch and the star of your god Remphan, the images that you made to worship. So I will send you into exile beyond Babylon.'

(Acts 7:44) 
Our fathers had the tabernacle of testimony in the wilderness, as He who spoke to Moses directed, so that Moses should make it according to the pattern he had seen.

(Acts 7:45) 
Our fathers, in turn, brought it in with Joshua when they took possession of the land of the Gentiles, whom God drove out before our fathers, until the days of David.

(Acts 7:46) 
David found favor in the sight of God, and he asked to find a dwelling place for the God of Jacob.

(Acts 7:47) 
But it was Solomon who built a house for God.

(Acts 7:48) 
However, the Most High does not dwell in buildings made by hands, as the prophet says:

(Acts 7:49) 
'Heaven is My throne, and earth is the footstool of My feet. What house will you build for Me?' says the Lord, 'or what is the place of My rest?'

(Acts 7:50) 
'Has not My hand made all these things?'

(Acts 7:51) 
You stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit; as your fathers did, so do you.

(Acts 7:52) 
Which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? And they killed those who foretold the coming of the Righteous One, of whom you have now become the betrayers and murderers.

(Acts 7:53) 
You received the law as delivered by angels, and you did not keep it.

(Acts 7:54) 
Now when they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed their teeth at him.

(Acts 7:55) 
But Stephen, full of the Holy Spirit, looked intently into the universe, and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the right hand of God.

(Acts 7:56) 
And Stephen said: "Behold, I see the sky opened, and the Son of man standing at the right hand of God."

(Acts 7:57) 
Then they cried out with a loud voice, and stopped their ears, and rushed at him together,

(Acts 7:58) 
and they cast him out of the city and began to stone him. And the witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man named Saul.

(Acts 7:59) 
And they were stoning Stephen as he called out, saying, "Lord Jesus, receive my spirit."

(Acts 7:60) 
And he knelt down and cried out with a loud voice, saying, "Lord, do not hold this sin against them." And when he had said this, he fell asleep in the Lord.

(Acts 8:1) 
Saul approved of the killing of Stephen. A great persecution began against the Church in Jerusalem that very day, and all the Christians were scattered throughout Judea and Samaria—except for the apostles, who stayed in Jerusalem.

(Acts 8:2) 
Some devout men buried Stephen, and they mourned for him.

(Acts 8:3) 
Saul ravaged the Church, entering house after house, dragging off both men and women, and putting them in prison.

(Acts 8:4) 
So those who had been scattered went about preaching the good news of God.

(Acts 8:5) 
Philip went down to the city of Samaria and preached Christ to them.

(Acts 8:6) 
The crowds paid close attention to what Philip said, because they were united in listening to him and seeing the miracles that he was performing.

(Acts 8:7) 
For unclean spirits, crying out loudly, came out of many who were possessed by them, and many who were paralyzed or lame were cured.

(Acts 8:8) 
So there was great joy in that city.

(Acts 8:9) 
Now a certain man named Simon had previously practiced magic in the city of Samaria and had amazed the Samaritan people. He claimed to be someone great,

(Acts 8:10) 
and all the people, from the least to the greatest, listened to him, saying, “This man is the power of God, which is called ‘the Great Power.’”

(Acts 8:11) 
They were devoted to him because for a long time he had amazed them with his magic.

(Acts 8:12) 
But when they believed Philip as he proclaimed the good news about the Kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women.

(Acts 8:13) 
Even Simon himself believed. And after he was baptized, he stayed close to Philip. When he saw the signs and great miracles that were being performed, he was amazed.

(Acts 8:14) 
Now when the apostles in Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent Peter and John to them.

(Acts 8:15) 
When they arrived, they prayed that the Samaritans might receive the Holy Spirit.

(Acts 8:16) 
The Spirit had not yet come down on any of them, they had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.

(Acts 8:17) 
Then Peter and John placed their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit.

(Acts 8:18) 
When Simon saw that the Spirit was given through the laying on of the apostles’ hands, he offered them money,

(Acts 8:19) 
saying, “Give me this power also, so that anyone on whom I lay my hands may receive the Holy Spirit.”

(Acts 8:20) 
But Peter replied, “May your money perish with you, because you thought you could buy the gift of God with money!

(Acts 8:21) 
You have no part or share in this matter, because your heart is not right before God.

(Acts 8:22) 
Repent of this wickedness of yours, and pray to the Lord that, if possible, your heart’s intent may be forgiven.

(Acts 8:23) 
For I see that you are in the gall of bitterness and in the bondage of iniquity.”

(Acts 8:24) 
Then Simon answered, “Pray to the Lord for me, that nothing of what you have said may happen to me.”

(Acts 8:25) 
So when they had testified and proclaimed the word of the Lord, they returned to Jerusalem, preaching the good news in many villages of the Samaritans.

(Acts 8:26) 
Then an angel of the Lord said to Philip, “Get up and go south to the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza.” (This road is desolate.)

(Acts 8:27) 
So he got up and went. There he met an Ethiopian eunuch, a high official of Candace, the queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge of her entire treasury. This man had come to Jerusalem to worship,

(Acts 8:28) 
and he was returning home; he was sitting in his chariot and reading the prophet Isaiah.

(Acts 8:29) 
Then the Spirit said to Philip, “Go over and join this chariot.”

(Acts 8:30) 
So Philip ran up to him and heard him reading the prophet Isaiah. He asked, “Do you understand what you are reading?”

(Acts 8:31) 
He replied, “How can I, unless someone guides me?” And he invited Philip to come up and sit with him.

(Acts 8:32) 
Now the passage of Scripture that he was reading was this: “He was led like a sheep to the slaughter, and as a lamb before its shearer is silent, so he did not open his mouth.

(Acts 8:33) 
In his humiliation justice was denied him. Who will tell of his generation? For his life is taken away from the earth.”

(Acts 8:34) 
The eunuch replied to Philip, “Please tell me, who is the prophet talking about? Is it about himself or about someone else?”

(Acts 8:35) 
Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning with this passage, he preached the good news about Jesus to him.

(Acts 8:36) 
And as they were going along the road, they came to some water; and the eunuch said, “Look, here is water! What prevents me from being baptized?”

(Acts 8:37) 
And Philip said, “If you believe with all your heart, you may.” And he replied, “I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.”

(Acts 8:38) 
Then he ordered the chariot to stop, and both of them, Philip and the eunuch, went down into the water, and Philip baptized him.

(Acts 8:39) 
When they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord suddenly took Philip away, and the eunuch did not see him again, but went on his way rejoicing.

(Acts 8:40) 
But Philip found himself at Azotus, and as he passed through the region, he proclaimed the good news in all the cities until he came to Caesarea.

(Acts 9:1) 
Meanwhile, Saul was still threatening the Lord’s disciples. He wanted to kill them, so he went to the high priest,

(Acts 9:2) 
and asked for letters to the synagogues in Damascus. He wanted to arrest any men or women who followed the Way of Jesus, so that he could bring them to Jerusalem in chains.

(Acts 9:3) 
As he was traveling and nearing Damascus, suddenly a light shone from the sky all around him.

(Acts 9:4) 
He fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, “Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?”

(Acts 9:5) 
Saul asked, “Who are you, Lord?” The voice replied, “I am Jesus, the one you are persecuting.

(Acts 9:6) 
Now get up and go into the city, where you will be told what you must do.”

(Acts 9:7) 
The men traveling with him stood speechless. They heard the voice, but they could not see anyone.

(Acts 9:8) 
Saul got up from the ground, and when he opened his eyes, he could see nothing. So they took him by the hand and led him into Damascus.

(Acts 9:9) 
He could not see for three days, and he neither ate nor drank.

(Acts 9:10) 
In Damascus there was a disciple named Ananias. The Lord spoke to him in a vision, saying, “Ananias.” Ananias answered, “Here I am, Lord.”

(Acts 9:11) 
The Lord said to him, “Get up and go to the street called Straight. Ask at the house of Judas for a man from Tarsus named Saul. He is praying,

(Acts 9:12) 
and he has seen a man named Ananias coming in and laying his hands on him so that he can see again.”

(Acts 9:13) 
Ananias answered, “Lord, I have heard many reports about this man and all the harm he has done to your holy people in Jerusalem.

(Acts 9:14) 
He has received authority from the chief priests to arrest everyone who calls on your name.”

(Acts 9:15) 
But the Lord said to him, “Go, for this man is my chosen instrument to proclaim my name to the Gentiles and their kings and to the people of Israel.

(Acts 9:16) 
I will show him how much he must suffer for my name.”

(Acts 9:17) 
Then Ananias went to the house and entered it. He placed his hands on Saul and said, “Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road as you were coming here, has sent me so that you may see again and be filled with the Holy Spirit.”

(Acts 9:18) 
Immediately something like scales fell from Saul’s eyes, and he could see again. He got up and was baptized,

(Acts 9:19) 
and after taking some food, he regained his strength. Saul stayed with the disciples in Damascus for some days.

(Acts 9:20) 
Immediately he began to preach in the synagogues that Jesus is the Son of God.

(Acts 9:21) 
All those who heard him were astonished and asked, “Isn’t this the man who raised havoc in Jerusalem among those who call on this name? And hasn’t he come here to take them as prisoners to the chief priests?”

(Acts 9:22) 
Yet Saul grew more and more powerful and baffled the Jews living in Damascus by proving that Jesus is the Messiah.

(Acts 9:23) 
After many days had passed, the Jews plotted to kill him,

(Acts 9:24) 
but Saul learned of their plan. They were watching the city gates day and night in order to kill him.

(Acts 9:25) 
But his followers helped him escape during the night by lowering him in a basket through an opening in the wall.

(Acts 9:26) 
When Saul came to Jerusalem, he tried to join the disciples, but they were all afraid of him, not believing that he really was a disciple.

(Acts 9:27) 
But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles. He told them how Saul on his journey had seen the Lord and that the Lord had spoken to him, and how in Damascus he had preached fearlessly in the name of Jesus.

(Acts 9:28) 
So Saul stayed with them and moved about freely in Jerusalem, speaking boldly in the name of the Lord.

(Acts 9:29) 
He talked and debated with the Hellenists, but they tried to kill him.

(Acts 9:30) 
When the believers learned of this, they took him down to Caesarea and sent him off to Tarsus.

(Acts 9:31) 
Then the church throughout Judea, Galilee and Samaria enjoyed a time of peace and was strengthened. Living in the fear of the Lord and encouraged by the Holy Spirit, it increased in numbers.

(Acts 9:32) 
As Peter traveled about the country, he went to visit the Lord’s people who lived in Lydda.

(Acts 9:33) 
There he found a man named Aeneas, who was paralyzed and had been bedridden for eight years.

(Acts 9:34) 
Peter said to him, “Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you. Get up and roll up your mat.” Immediately Aeneas got up,

(Acts 9:35) 
and all those who lived in Lydda and Sharon saw him. And many turned to the Lord.

(Acts 9:36) 
In Joppa there was a disciple named Tabitha (which, when translated, is Dorcas), who was always doing good and helping the poor.

(Acts 9:37) 
About that time she became sick and died, and her body was washed and placed in an upstairs room.

(Acts 9:38) 
Lydda was near Joppa; so when the disciples heard that Peter was in Lydda, they sent two men to him and urged him, “Please come at once!”

(Acts 9:39) 
Peter went with them, and when he arrived, he was taken upstairs to the room. All the widows stood around him, crying and showing him the robes and other clothing that Dorcas had made while she was still with them.

(Acts 9:40) 
Peter sent them all out of the room; then he got down on his knees and prayed. Turning toward the dead woman, he said, “Tabitha, get up.” She opened her eyes, and seeing Peter, she sat up.

(Acts 9:41) 
He gave her his hand and helped her to her feet. Then he called the believers and the widows and presented her to them alive.

(Acts 9:42) 
This became known all over Joppa, and many people believed in the Lord.

(Acts 9:43) 
Peter stayed in Joppa for some time with a tanner named Simon.

(Acts 10:1) 
There was a certain man in Caesarea, whose name was Cornelius, a centurion of the cohort which is called the Italian,

(Acts 10:2) 
a religious man, and one that feared God with all his house, giving much alms to the people, and always praying to God.

(Acts 10:3) 
This man saw in a vision manifestly, about the ninth hour of the day, an angel of God coming in to him, and saying to him: Cornelius.

(Acts 10:4) 
And he, beholding him, being seized with fear, said: What is it, Lord?

(Acts 10:5) 
And he said to him: Thy prayers and thy alms are ascended for a memorial in the sight of God.

(Acts 10:6) 
And now send men to Joppe, and call for one Simon who is surnamed Peter:

(Acts 10:7) 
He lodgeth with one Simon a tanner, whose house is by the sea side. He will tell thee what thou must do.

(Acts 10:8) 
And when the angel who spoke to Cornelius was departed, he called two of his servants, and a soldier that was religious, of them that were with him,

(Acts 10:9) 
To whom when he had related all, he sent them to Joppe.

(Acts 10:10) 
And on the next day, whilst they were going on their journey, and drawing nigh to the city, Peter went up to the higher parts of the house to pray, about the sixth hour.

(Acts 10:11) 
And being hungry, he was desirous to taste something. And whilst they were preparing, there came upon him an ecstasy of mind:

(Acts 10:12) 
And he saw the heaven opened, and a certain vessel descending, as it were a great sheet, let down from heaven by four corners to the earth,

(Acts 10:13) 
Wherein were all manner of fourfooted beasts, and creeping things of the earth, and fowls of the air.

(Acts 10:14) 
And there came a voice to him: Arise, Peter; kill and eat.

(Acts 10:15) 
But Peter said: Far be it from me; for I have never eaten any thing that is common and unclean.

(Acts 10:16) 
And the voice came again to him the second time: That which God hath made clean, do not thou call common.

(Acts 10:17) 
And this was done thrice: and incontinently the vessel was taken up into heaven.

(Acts 10:18) 
And as Peter was doubting within himself, what the vision that he had seen might mean, behold, the men that were sent from Cornelius, inquiring for Simon's house, stood at the gate.

(Acts 10:19) 
And when they had called, they asked if Simon, who is surnamed Peter, were lodged there.

(Acts 10:20) 
And as Peter was thinking of the vision, the Spirit said to him: Behold, three men seek thee.

(Acts 10:21) 
Arise, therefore, and go down, and do not hesitate to go with them: for I have sent them.

(Acts 10:22) 
Then Peter, going down to the men, said: Behold, I am he whom you seek. What is the cause for which you are come?

(Acts 10:23) 
Who said: Cornelius, the centurion, a just man, and one that feareth God, and that hath good testimony from all the nation of the Jews, received an answer from God by a holy angel, to send for thee into his house, and to hear words from thee.

(Acts 10:24) 
Then bringing them in, he lodged them. And the day following, he arose and went with them: and some of the brethren from Joppe accompanied him.

(Acts 10:25) 
And the next day they entered into Cesarea. And Cornelius was waiting for them, having called together his kinsmen and special friends.

(Acts 10:26) 
And it came to pass that when Peter was come in, Cornelius came to meet him, and fell down and worshipped him.

(Acts 10:27) 
But Peter lifted him up, saying: Arise, I myself also am a man.

(Acts 10:28) 
And as he was talking with him, he went in, and found many that were come together:

(Acts 10:29) 
And he said to them: You know how unlawful it is for a man that is a Jew, to keep company or to come unto one of another nation: but God hath shewed to me, not to call any man common or unclean.

(Acts 10:30) 
Therefore I came without any doubt, being sent for. I ask, therefore, for what cause have you sent for me?

(Acts 10:31) 
And Cornelius said: Four days ago, I was fasting until this hour, and I prayed in my house at the ninth hour, and behold a man stood before me in white clothing, and said:

(Acts 10:32) 
Cornelius, thy prayer is heard, and thy alms are in remembrance in the sight of God.

(Acts 10:33) 
Send therefore to Joppe, and call hither Simon, who is surnamed Peter: he lodgeth in the house of Simon a tanner, by the sea side. He will tell thee what thou must do.

(Acts 10:34) 
Immediately therefore I sent to thee: and thou hast done well in coming. Now therefore are we all here present in thy sight, to hear all things whatsoever are commanded thee by God.

(Acts 10:35) 
And Peter opening his mouth, said: In very deed I perceive that God is not a respecter of persons:

(Acts 10:36) 
But in every nation, he that feareth him, and worketh justice, is acceptable to him.

(Acts 10:37) 
God sent the Son to the children of Israel, to announce peace through Jesus Christ: (he is the Lord of all things).

(Acts 10:38) 
You know what happened, the Word spoken throughout all Judea. It all started in Galilee, after the baptism that John proclaimed.

(Acts 10:39) 
The mission of Jesus from Nazareth: How God anointed Him with the Holy Spirit and with power, and he passed by doing good and healing all that were oppressed by the devil, for God was with Him.

(Acts 10:40) 
And we are witnesses of all things that he did in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem: whom they killed, hanging him upon a tree.

(Acts 10:41) 
Him God raised up the third day, and gave him to be made manifest,

(Acts 10:42) 
Not to all the people, but to witnesses preordained by God, even to us, who did eat and drink with him after he rose again from the dead:

(Acts 10:43) 
And he commanded us to preach to the people, and to testify that it is he who was appointed by God to be judge of the living and of the dead.

(Acts 10:44) 
To him all the prophets give testimony, that through his name all receive remission of sins, who believe in him.

(Acts 10:45) 
While Peter was yet speaking these words, the Holy Ghost fell on all them that heard the word.

(Acts 10:46) 
And they of the circumcision, who believed, were astonished at them that were come with Peter, because that the grace of the Holy Ghost was also poured out upon the Gentiles.

(Acts 10:47) 
For they heard them speaking with tongues, and magnifying God. Then Peter answered:

(Acts 10:48) 
Can any man forbid water, that these should not be baptized, who have received the Holy Ghost as well as we?

(Acts 10:49) 
And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Then they besought him to tarry with them some days.

(Acts 11:1) 
The apostles and the brothers and sisters throughout Judea then heard that the Gentiles had received the word of God.

(Acts 11:2) 
When Peter went up to Jerusalem, those of the circumcision began to argue with him,

(Acts 11:3) 
saying, "Why did you go in to uncircumcised men and eat with them?"

(Acts 11:4) 
Peter then began to explain the matter to them in order.

(Acts 11:5) 
He said, "I was in the city of Joppa, praying; and in a trance I saw a vision: a certain vessel descended, as it were a great sheet, let down from heaven by four corners, and it came even to me.

(Acts 11:6) 
In this vision I looked and saw the four-footed beasts of the earth, and wild animals, and creeping things, and the birds of the sky.

(Acts 11:7) 
And I heard a voice saying to me, 'Rise, Peter; kill and eat.'

(Acts 11:8) 
But I said, 'Not so, Lord; for nothing common or unclean has ever entered my mouth.'

(Acts 11:9) 
But the voice answered again from heaven, 'What God has cleansed, do not you call common.'

(Acts 11:10) 
Now this was done three times, and all were drawn up again into heaven.

(Acts 11:11) 
And behold, immediately three men stood before the house in which I was, sent from Caesarea to me.

(Acts 11:12) 
And the Spirit told me to go with them, making no distinction. And these six brothers went with me also, and we entered into the man's house.

(Acts 11:13) 
And he told us how he had seen an angel in his house, standing and saying to him, 'Send to Joppa and get Simon, who is called Peter,'

(Acts 11:14) 
who will speak words to you by which you will be saved, you and all your household.'

(Acts 11:15) 
And as I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them, just as on us in the beginning.

(Acts 11:16) 
Then I remembered the word of the Lord, how He said, 'John indeed baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit.'

(Acts 11:17) 
If then God gave the same gift to them as to us when we believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I that I could withstand God?

(Acts 11:18) 
When they heard these things, they held their peace and glorified God, saying, "Then God has also granted to the Gentiles repentance to life."

(Acts 11:19) 
Now they who were scattered by the persecution that arose over Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia, and Cyprus, and Antioch, speaking the word to no one except the Jews only.

(Acts 11:20) 
But there were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who, when they had come to Antioch, spoke also to the Greeks, preaching the Lord Jesus.

(Acts 11:21) 
And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned to the Lord.

(Acts 11:22) 
Then tidings of these things came to the ears of the church in Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas to Antioch.

(Acts 11:23) 
When he had come and seen the grace of God, he was glad, and he exhorted them all that with purpose of heart they should continue with the Lord.

(Acts 11:24) 
For he was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a great number of people were added to the Lord.

(Acts 11:25) 
Then Barnabas went to Tarsus to seek Saul.

(Acts 11:26) 
And when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. So it was that for a whole year they assembled with the church and taught a great number of people. And the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch.

(Acts 11:27) 
And in these days prophets came from Jerusalem to Antioch.

(Acts 11:28) 
Then one of them, named Agabus, stood up and showed by the Spirit that there would be a great famine throughout all the world, which also happened in the days of Claudius Caesar.

(Acts 11:29) 
Then the disciples, each according to his ability, determined to send relief to the brethren dwelling in Judea.

(Acts 11:30) 
This they also did, and sent it to the elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul.

(Acts 12:1) 
At that same time, Herod the king had some members of the Church arrested.

(Acts 12:2) 
He killed James, the brother of John, with a sword.

(Acts 12:3) 
When he saw that this pleased the Jews, he had Peter arrested as well. This happened during the days of Unleavened Bread.

(Acts 12:4) 
Having arrested him, he put him in prison, entrusting him to four squads of soldiers to guard him, intending to bring him before the people after the Passover.

(Acts 12:5) 
So Peter was kept in prison, but the Church was praying to God for him, constantly.

(Acts 12:6) 
The night before Herod was going to bring him out, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains, and guards were in front of the door, guarding the prison.

(Acts 12:7) 
Suddenly, an angel of the Lord appeared, and light shone in the cell. He struck Peter on the side and woke him up, saying, "Get up quickly!" And the chains fell from his hands.

(Acts 12:8) 
The angel said to him, "Put on your belt and put on your sandals." And he did so. The angel said to him, "Wrap your cloak around you and follow me."

(Acts 12:9) 
Peter went out and followed him, though he didn't know that what the angel was doing was real; he thought he was seeing a vision.

(Acts 12:10) 
They passed the first and second guards and came to the iron gate leading to the city. It opened for them on its own. They went out and walked along one street, and then the angel left him.

(Acts 12:11) 
Then Peter came to himself and said, "Now I know for certain that the Lord has sent His angel and rescued me from Herod and from everything the Jewish people were hoping for."

(Acts 12:12) 
When he realized this, he went to the house of Mary, the mother of John, also called Mark, where many people were gathered and praying.

(Acts 12:13) 
Peter knocked at the door, and a servant girl named Rhoda came to answer it.

(Acts 12:14) 
Recognizing Peter's voice, she was so overjoyed that she didn't open the door, but ran in and announced that Peter was standing at the door.

(Acts 12:15) 
They said to her, "You're out of your mind." But she insisted that it was true. They said, "It must be his angel."

(Acts 12:16) 
But Peter kept knocking. When they opened the door and saw him, they were astonished.

(Acts 12:17) 
He motioned to them with his hand to be quiet and then told them how the Lord had brought him out of prison. "Tell James and the other brothers about this," he said, and then he left and went to another place.

(Acts 12:18) 
In the morning, there was a great commotion among the soldiers about what had happened to Peter.

(Acts 12:19) 
After Herod had a thorough search for him and did not find him, he interrogated the guards and ordered that they be executed. Then Herod went down from Judea to Caesarea and stayed there.

(Acts 12:20) 
Herod was furious with the people of Tyre and Sidon, but they came to him in a body. After getting Blastus, the king's personal aide, on their side, they asked for peace, because their country depended on Herod's country for its food supply.

(Acts 12:21) 
On the appointed day, Herod, wearing royal robes, sat on his throne and delivered a speech to them.

(Acts 12:22) 
The crowd began to shout, "This is the voice of a god, not of a man."

(Acts 12:23) 
Immediately, because Herod did not give praise to God, the angel of the Lord struck him down, and he was eaten by worms and died.

(Acts 12:24) 
But the Word of the Lord continued to spread and flourish.

(Acts 12:25) 
Then Barnabas and Saul returned to Jerusalem after completing their mission, taking John, also called Mark, with them.

(Acts 13:1) 
Now in the Church that was in Antioch there were prophets and teachers: Barnabas, and Simon who was called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manaen, who was brought up with Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.

(Acts 13:2) 
As they were ministering to the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said: “Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them.”

(Acts 13:3) 
Then, after they had fasted and prayed and laid hands on them, they sent them away.

(Acts 13:4) 
So they, being sent on a mission by the Holy Spirit, went down to Seleucia; and from there they sailed to Cyprus.

(Acts 13:5) 
And when they came to Salamis, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they had John in their ministry.

(Acts 13:6) 
And when they had gone through the whole island as far as Paphos, they found a certain sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew whose name was Bar-Jesus,

(Acts 13:7) 
who was with the proconsul Sergius Paulus, a man of intelligence. This man called for Barnabas and Saul and was eager to hear the word of God.

(Acts 13:8) 
But Elymas the sorcerer (for so is the meaning of his name) was resisting them, seeking to turn the proconsul away from the faith.

(Acts 13:9) 
But Saul, who is also called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, looking intently at him,

(Acts 13:10) 
said: “O full of all deceit and all fraud, you son of the devil, enemy of all righteousness, will you not cease to pervert the straight ways of the Lord?

(Acts 13:11) 
And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you will be blind, not seeing the sun for a time.” And immediately a mist and darkness fell upon him, and he went about seeking someone to lead him by the hand.

(Acts 13:12) 
Then the proconsul, when he saw what had happened, believed, being astonished at the teaching of the Lord.

(Acts 13:13) 
Now when Paul and his companions set sail from Paphos, they came to Pamphylia, to Perga. And John, departing from them, returned to Jerusalem.

(Acts 13:14) 
But they, passing on from Perga, came to Antioch in Pisidia; and on the Sabbath they went into the synagogue and sat down.

(Acts 13:15) 
After the reading of the Law and the Prophets, the rulers of the synagogue sent to them, saying, “Men, brothers, if there is any word of exhortation for the people, speak.”

(Acts 13:16) 
Then Paul stood up and, motioning with his hand, said: “Men of Israel, and you who fear God, listen.

(Acts 13:17) 
The God of the people of Israel chose our fathers and exalted the people when they were sojourners in the land of Egypt, and with a high arm he led them out of it,

(Acts 13:18) 
and for about forty years he put up with them in the wilderness.

(Acts 13:19) 
And when he had destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, he distributed their land to them by lot,

(Acts 13:20) 
as it were, for about four hundred and fifty years. And after that he gave them judges until Samuel the prophet.

(Acts 13:21) 
And then they asked for a king, and God gave them Saul the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years.

(Acts 13:22) 
And when he had removed him, he raised up David to be their king, of whom he bore witness and said, ‘I have found in David the son of Jesse, a man after my heart, who will do all my will.’

(Acts 13:23) 
From the offspring of this man, according to the promise, God brought to Israel a Savior, Jesus,

(Acts 13:24) 
before whose coming John had preached a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.

(Acts 13:25) 
And as John was finishing his course, he said, ‘What do you suppose that I am? I am not the one. But behold, one comes after me, whose sandal I am not worthy to untie.’

(Acts 13:26) 
“Men, brothers, children of the family of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, to you the word of this salvation has been sent.

(Acts 13:27) 
For those who live in Jerusalem and their rulers, because they did not recognize him, nor understand the voices of the prophets which are read every Sabbath, fulfilled these prophecies by condemning him.

(Acts 13:28) 
And though they found in him no cause for death, they asked Pilate to have him executed.

(Acts 13:29) 
And when they had fulfilled all that was written of him, they took him down from the tree and laid him in a tomb.

(Acts 13:30) 
But God raised him from the dead on the third day.

(Acts 13:31) 
And for many days he appeared to those who had come up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are now his witnesses to the people.

(Acts 13:32) 
And we bring you good news of the promise that was made to the fathers, that God has fulfilled this promise to their children by raising up Jesus,

(Acts 13:33) 
as it is also written in the second Psalm, ‘You are my Son; today I have become your Father.’

(Acts 13:34) 
And that he raised him from the dead, no more to return to corruption, he has spoken in this way: ‘I will give you the holy and sure blessings of David.’

(Acts 13:35) 
Therefore he says also in another place, ‘You will not let your Holy One see corruption.’

(Acts 13:36) 
For David, after he had served the purpose of God in his own generation, fell asleep and was laid with his fathers and saw corruption,

(Acts 13:37) 
but he whom God raised up did not see corruption.

(Acts 13:38) 
Let it be known to you therefore, men, brothers, that through this man forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you, and by him everyone who believes is freed from everything from which you could not be freed by the law of Moses.

(Acts 13:39) 
and by him everyone who believes is freed from everything from which you could not be freed by the law of Moses.

(Acts 13:40) 
Beware, therefore, lest what is said in the prophets should come about:

(Acts 13:41) 
“Look, you scoffers, and wonder and perish; for I am doing a work in your days, a work that you will not believe, even if one tells it to you.”

(Acts 13:42) 
As they went out, they begged that these words might be spoken to them the next Sabbath.

(Acts 13:43) 
And after the meeting of the synagogue broke up, many of the Jews and devout converts to Judaism followed Paul and Barnabas, who, as they spoke with them, urged them to continue in the grace of God.

(Acts 13:44) 
The next Sabbath almost the whole city gathered to hear the word of God.

(Acts 13:45) 
But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy and began to contradict what was spoken by Paul, reviling him.

(Acts 13:46) 
And Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly, saying, “It was necessary that the word of God be spoken first to you. But since you reject it and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold, we are turning to the Gentiles.

(Acts 13:47) 
For so the Lord has commanded us, saying, ‘I have made you a light for the Gentiles, that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth.’

(Acts 13:48) 
And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord, and as many as were appointed to eternal life believed.

(Acts 13:49) 
And the word of the Lord was spreading throughout the whole region.

(Acts 13:50) 
But the Jews incited the devout women of high standing and the leading men of the city, and stirred up persecution against Paul and Barnabas and drove them out of their district.

(Acts 13:51) 
But they shook off the dust from their feet against them and went to Iconium.

(Acts 13:52) 
And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit.

(Acts 14:1) 
In Iconium, Paul and Barnabas continued to enter into the synagogue. They preached, and a large multitude of both Jews and Greeks believed.

(Acts 14:2) 
But the Jews who refused to believe stirred up the Gentiles and poisoned their minds against the brothers.

(Acts 14:3) 
Paul and Barnabas remained there a long time, speaking boldly, trusting in the Lord. God’s grace caused them to speak in power and perform miracles.

(Acts 14:4) 
The city was divided. Some sided with the Jews, but others sided with the Apostles.

(Acts 14:5) 
When both the Gentiles and the Jews, along with their rulers, violently attacked the Apostles, intending to abuse them and stone them...

(Acts 14:6) 
...they fled to the cities of Lystra and Derbe in Lycaonia and all the surrounding region.

(Acts 14:7) 
They continued to preach there the Gospel.

(Acts 14:8) 
In Lystra, there was a man sitting who was crippled in his feet. He had been lame from birth, and had never walked.

(Acts 14:9) 
He listened to Paul speaking. Paul looked at him, and seeing that he had the faith to be healed,

(Acts 14:10) 
said in a loud voice, "Stand upright on your feet!" And he leaped up and began to walk.

(Acts 14:11) 
When the crowds saw what Paul had done, they shouted in the Lycaonian language, saying, “The gods have come down to us, in the likeness of men!”

(Acts 14:12) 
They called Barnabas “Jupiter,” and Paul “Mercury,” because Paul was the chief speaker.

(Acts 14:13) 
The priest of Jupiter, whose temple was in front of the city, brought bulls and garlands to the gates, and with the crowds, wanted to offer sacrifice.

(Acts 14:14) 
But when the Apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard this, they tore their clothes and rushed into the crowd, shouting:

(Acts 14:15) 
“Men, why are you doing this? We are also mortals, like you. We are preaching so that you turn from these empty things and come to the living God, who created the universe and the earth and the sea and all that is in them.

(Acts 14:16) 
In generations past, he allowed all the Gentiles to follow their own ways.

(Acts 14:17) 
Yet he did not leave himself without a witness. He did good, giving you rain from the sky and fruitful seasons, filling your hearts with food and joy.

(Acts 14:18) 
Even saying these things, it was barely enough to restrain the crowds from sacrificing to them.

(Acts 14:19) 
Then some Jews arrived from Antioch and Iconium, and they persuaded the crowds. They stoned Paul and dragged him outside the city, thinking he was dead.

(Acts 14:20) 
But when the disciples gathered around him, he rose up and went back into the city. The next day, he went with Barnabas to Derbe.

(Acts 14:21) 
After preaching the Gospel to that city and making many disciples, they returned to Lystra, Iconium, and Antioch,

(Acts 14:22) 
strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to remain in the faith, because we must endure many tribulations to enter into the Kingdom of God.

(Acts 14:23) 
Then they appointed presbyters for them in each church, with prayer and fasting, and commended them to the Lord in whom they had believed.

(Acts 14:24) 
Then, after passing through Pisidia, they came to Pamphylia.

(Acts 14:25) 
After they spoke the word of the Lord in Perga, they went down to Attalia,

(Acts 14:26) 
and from there they sailed to Antioch, where they had been commended to the grace of God for the work they had completed.

(Acts 14:27) 
When they arrived, and gathered the Church, they reported all the things God had done with them, and that He had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles.

(Acts 14:28) 
They stayed there with the disciples for a long time.

(Acts 15:1) 
Certain men came down from Judea, and taught the brothers: “Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved.”

(Acts 15:2) 
When there was no small dissension and debate by Paul and Barnabas against them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas, and certain others of them, should go up to the apostles and priests in Jerusalem, about this question.

(Acts 15:3) 
They therefore, having been led forward by the Church, were passing through Phoenicia and Samaria, narrating the conversion of the Gentiles: and they were making great joy to all the brothers.

(Acts 15:4) 
When they came to Jerusalem, they were received by the Church and the apostles and priests, announcing how great a thing God had done with them.

(Acts 15:5) 
Certain ones of the sect of the Pharisees, who had believed, rose up, saying: “It is necessary to circumcise them and command them to keep the law of Moses.”

(Acts 15:6) 
The apostles and the elders assembled to consider the word about this.

(Acts 15:7) 
When there was much debate, Peter rose up and said to them: “Men, brothers, you know that from the ancient days God chose among us, that the Gentiles should hear the word of the Gospel by my mouth, and believe.”

(Acts 15:8) 
And God, who knows the hearts, bore witness, giving to them the Holy Spirit, just as to us:

(Acts 15:9) 
And He made no distinction between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith.

(Acts 15:10) 
Now therefore why are you tempting God, to put a yoke upon the necks of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we could bear?

(Acts 15:11) 
But through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, we believe that we shall be saved, in the same way as they also [shall be saved].

(Acts 15:12) 
Then all the multitude fell silent: and they listened to Barnabas and Paul, relating how great signs and wonders God had done among the Gentiles by them.

(Acts 15:13) 
And after they were silent, James answered, saying: “Men, brothers, hear me.

(Acts 15:14) 
Simon has recounted how God first visited, taking from the Gentiles a holy people for His name.

(Acts 15:15) 
And with this agree the words of the prophets, as it is written:

(Acts 15:16) 
“After these things I will return, and I will rebuild the tabernacle of David that has fallen: and I will rebuild its ruins, and I will raise it up:

(Acts 15:17) 
so that the rest of men may seek the Lord, and all the Gentiles, upon whom My name is called, says the Lord, who does these things.”

(Acts 15:18) 
Known from the beginning is His work with God.

(Acts 15:19) 
Wherefore I judge that those who are converted to God from the Gentiles should not be disturbed,

(Acts 15:20) 
but that they should write to them that they abstain from the contaminations of idols, and from fornication, and from what is strangled, and from blood.

(Acts 15:21) 
For Moses, from the generations of old, has in every city those who preach him in the synagogues, where he is read every Sabbath.

(Acts 15:22) 
Then it pleased the apostles and the elders, with the whole Church, to choose men from among themselves, and to send to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas, Judas, who was called Barsabas, and Silas, leading men among the brothers.

(Acts 15:23) 
Writing by their hands: “The apostles and the elder brothers to those in Antioch, and Syria, and Cilicia, brothers from the Gentiles, greeting.”

(Acts 15:24) 
“Because we have heard that certain ones, who went out from among us, have disturbed you with words, subverting your souls, to whom we did not give any command:

(Acts 15:25) 
it has pleased us, gathered together in one place, to choose men and send them to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,

(Acts 15:26) 
men who have delivered their souls for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.

(Acts 15:27) 
We have sent therefore Judas and Silas, who also will tell you the same things.”

(Acts 15:28) 
“For it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit, and to us, to impose upon you no further burden than these necessary things:

(Acts 15:29) 
that you abstain from things sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what is strangled, and from fornication: from which keeping yourselves, you shall do well. Farewell.”

(Acts 15:30) 
So they, having been dismissed, went to Antioch: and gathering the multitude together, they delivered the letter.

(Acts 15:31) 
When they had read it, they rejoiced over the consolation.

(Acts 15:32) 
Judas and Silas, they also being prophets, with many words exhorted the brothers, and they strengthened them.

(Acts 15:33) 
And after they had spent some time there, they were dismissed with peace by the brothers to those who had sent them.

(Acts 15:34) 
But it seemed good to Silas to remain there.

(Acts 15:35) 
But Paul and Barnabas continued in Antioch, teaching and evangelizing with many others the word of the Lord.

(Acts 15:36) 
After some days, Paul said to Barnabas: “Let us return and visit the brothers through all the cities in which we have preached the word of the Lord, to see how they are doing.”

(Acts 15:37) 
And Barnabas wanted to take with them also John, who was called Mark.

(Acts 15:38) 
But Paul was asking him not to take this one with them, who had departed from them in Pamphylia, and had not gone with them to the work.

(Acts 15:39) 
There was a disagreement, so that they departed from each other, and Barnabas, taking Mark, sailed to Cyprus:

(Acts 15:40) 
But Paul, having chosen Silas, set out, having been delivered to the grace of God by the brothers.

(Acts 15:41) 
And he was going through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the churches, commanding them to keep the precepts of the Apostles and elders.

(Acts 16:1) 
Paul next traveled to Derbe and Lystra. There was a disciple named Timothy there, the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer, and his father was a Gentile.

(Acts 16:2) 
The brothers at Lystra and Iconium gave a good report of him.

(Acts 16:3) 
Paul wanted Timothy to go with him. He had Timothy circumcised because of the Jews who were in those places, for they all knew that his father was a Gentile.

(Acts 16:4) 
As they traveled from town to town, they passed along the decisions that had been made by the apostles and elders in Jerusalem, and the new churches obeyed these commands.

(Acts 16:5) 
So the churches were strengthened in the faith and grew daily in numbers.

(Acts 16:6) 
Then they traveled through the Phrygian and Galatian regions, being prevented by the Holy Spirit from speaking the word in Asia.

(Acts 16:7) 
When they came to Mysia, they tried to go to Bithynia, but the Spirit of Jesus did not allow them.

(Acts 16:8) 
So they passed by Mysia and went down to Troas.

(Acts 16:9) 
During the night, Paul had a vision. A man of Macedonia was standing and begging him, saying, “Come over to Macedonia and help us.”

(Acts 16:10) 
As soon as Paul had seen the vision, we immediately tried to go to Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to preach the gospel to them.

(Acts 16:11) 
Setting sail from Troas, we went straight to Samothrace, and the next day to Neapolis.

(Acts 16:12) 
From there we went to Philippi, a leading city of the district of Macedonia and a Roman colony. We remained in this city for some days.

(Acts 16:13) 
On the Sabbath, we went outside the gate to the riverside, where we thought there would be a place of prayer. We sat down and spoke to the women who had gathered there.

(Acts 16:14) 
A woman named Lydia, a seller of purple cloth from the city of Thyatira, was listening. She was a worshiper of God, and the Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what Paul said.

(Acts 16:15) 
After she and her household were baptized, she urged us, saying, “If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay.” And she compelled us.

(Acts 16:16) 
One day as we were going to the place of prayer, we met a slave girl who had a spirit of divination and brought her owners a great profit by fortune-telling.

(Acts 16:17) 
Following Paul and us, she kept crying out, saying, “These men are servants of the Most High God, who proclaim to you the way of salvation.”

(Acts 16:18) 
And she kept doing this for many days. But Paul, becoming greatly annoyed, turned and said to the spirit, “I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her.” And it came out that very hour.

(Acts 16:19) 
But when her owners saw that their hope of profit was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them to the marketplace before the authorities.

(Acts 16:20) 
And when they had brought them to the magistrates, they said, “These men are disturbing our city. They are Jews,

(Acts 16:21) 
and are proclaiming customs that are not lawful for us Romans to accept or practice.”

(Acts 16:22) 
The crowd joined in attacking them, and the magistrates tore off their clothes and ordered them to be beaten with rods.

(Acts 16:23) 
And when they had inflicted many blows upon them, they threw them into prison, ordering the jailer to keep them safely.

(Acts 16:24) 
Having received this order, he put them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in the stocks.

(Acts 16:25) 
About midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the other prisoners were listening to them.

(Acts 16:26) 
Suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken. And immediately all the doors were opened, and everyone’s bonds were unfastened.

(Acts 16:27) 
When the jailer woke up and saw that the prison doors were open, he drew his sword and was about to kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped.

(Acts 16:28) 
But Paul cried with a loud voice, “Do not harm yourself, for we are all here.”

(Acts 16:29) 
And the jailer called for lights and rushed in, and trembling with fear, he fell down before Paul and Silas.

(Acts 16:30) 
Then he brought them out and said, “Sirs, what must I do to be saved?”

(Acts 16:31) 
And they said, “Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household.”

(Acts 16:32) 
Then they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house.

(Acts 16:33) 
And he took them that very hour of the night and washed their wounds; and immediately he was baptized, he and all his household.

(Acts 16:34) 
Then he brought them up into his house and set food before them. And he rejoiced with all his household that he had believed in God.

(Acts 16:35) 
But when it was day, the magistrates sent the police to say, “Release those men.”

(Acts 16:36) 
And the jailer reported these words to Paul, saying, “The magistrates have sent to release you. Therefore, come out now and go in peace.”

(Acts 16:37) 
But Paul said to them, “They have beaten us publicly without a trial, men who are Roman citizens, and have thrown us into prison; and now they are secretly sending us away? No, let them come themselves and

(Acts 16:38) 
take us out.”

(Acts 16:39) 
The police reported these words to the magistrates, and they were afraid when they heard that they were Roman citizens.

(Acts 16:40) 
So they came and apologized to them. And they brought them out and asked them to leave the city.

(Acts 16:41) 
So they went out of the prison and entered the house of Lydia. And when they had seen the brothers, they encouraged them and departed.

(Acts 17:1) 
After Paul and Silas traveled through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they arrived in Thessalonica, where there was a Jewish synagogue.

(Acts 17:2) 
Paul then went into the synagogue, as was his custom. For three Sabbaths, he reasoned with them from the Scriptures,

(Acts 17:3) 
explaining and demonstrating that the Christ had to suffer, and to rise again from the dead. And he said, "This Jesus whom I announce to you is the Christ."

(Acts 17:4) 
Some of them were persuaded, and joined Paul and Silas, as did a large number of Gentile converts and many prominent women.

(Acts 17:5) 
But the Jews were jealous, and they gathered wicked men from the marketplace, and stirred up the city. They attacked the house of Jason, seeking to bring them out to the people.

(Acts 17:6) 
Not finding them, they dragged Jason and some of the brothers before the city authorities, shouting, "These men who have upset the world have come here too,

(Acts 17:7) 
and Jason has received them. They are all acting against the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus."

(Acts 17:8) 
They stirred up the crowd and the city authorities who heard these things.

(Acts 17:9) 
After taking security from Jason and the others, they let them go.

(Acts 17:10) 
The brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Beroea. When they arrived, they went into the Jewish synagogue.

(Acts 17:11) 
These Jews were more noble than those in Thessalonica, because they received the word with all eagerness, examining the Scriptures daily to see if these things were so.

(Acts 17:12) 
Many of them therefore believed, as did quite a few of the distinguished Greek women and many men.

(Acts 17:13) 
But when the Jews from Thessalonica learned that the word of God was preached by Paul in Beroea also, they came there too, stirring up and disturbing the crowds.

(Acts 17:14) 
Then the brothers immediately sent Paul away to go as far as the sea, but Silas and Timothy remained there.

(Acts 17:15) 
Those who escorted Paul brought him to Athens. After receiving a command for Silas and Timothy to come to him as soon as possible, they departed.

(Acts 17:16) 
Now while Paul was waiting for them in Athens, his spirit was provoked within him as he saw that the city was full of idols.

(Acts 17:17) 
So he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and the devout persons, and in the marketplace every day with those who happened to be there.

(Acts 17:18) 
Some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers also debated with him. Some said, "What does this babbler want to say?" Others said, "He seems to be a preacher of foreign divinities," because he was preaching about Jesus and the resurrection.

(Acts 17:19) 
And they took him and brought him to the Areopagus, saying, "May we know what this new teaching is that you are presenting?

(Acts 17:20) 
For you bring some strange things to our ears. We want to know therefore what these things mean."

(Acts 17:21) 
Now all the Athenians and the foreigners who lived there would spend their time in nothing except telling or hearing something new.

(Acts 17:22) 
So Paul, standing in the midst of the Areopagus, said, "Men of Athens, I perceive that in all things you are very religious.

(Acts 17:23) 
For as I passed along and observed the objects of your worship, I found also an altar with this inscription, 'To the unknown god.' What therefore you worship as unknown, this I proclaim to you.

(Acts 17:24) 
The God who made the world and everything in it, being Lord of the universe and the earth, does not live in temples made by hands,

(Acts 17:25) 
nor is he served by human hands, as though he needed anything, since he himself gives to all mankind life and breath and everything.

(Acts 17:26) 
And he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined allotted periods and the boundaries of their dwelling place,

(Acts 17:27) 
that they should seek God, and perhaps feel their way toward him and find him. Yet he is actually not far from each one of us,

(Acts 17:28) 
for "'In him we live and move and have our being'; as even some of your own poets have said, 'For we are indeed his offspring.'

(Acts 17:29) 
Being then God's offspring, we ought not to think that the divine being is like gold or silver or stone, an image formed by the art and imagination of man.

(Acts 17:30) 
The times of ignorance therefore God overlooked, but now he commands all people everywhere to repent,

(Acts 17:31) 
because he has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed; and of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead."

(Acts 17:32) 
Now when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked. But others said, "We will hear you again about this."

(Acts 17:33) 
So Paul went out from their midst.

(Acts 17:34) 
But some men joined him and believed, among whom also were Dionysius the Areopagite and a woman named Damaris and others with them.

(Acts 18:1) 
After these things, Paul left Athens and went to Corinth.

(Acts 18:2) 
And when he found a certain Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, who had recently come from Italy, and Priscilla his wife (because Claudius had ordered all Jews to depart from Rome), he went to them.

(Acts 18:3) 
And because he practiced the same trade, he stayed with them and worked; for they were tentmakers.

(Acts 18:4) 
And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath, explaining the name of Jesus, and persuading Jews and Greeks.

(Acts 18:5) 
But when Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, Paul was pressed by the word, testifying to the Jews that Jesus was the Christ.

(Acts 18:6) 
But when they opposed and blasphemed, he shook his garments and said to them: “Your blood be upon your own heads; I am clean. From now on I will go to the Gentiles.”

(Acts 18:7) 
And he departed from there and went to the house of a certain man named Titus Justus, a worshiper of God, whose house was next door to the synagogue.

(Acts 18:8) 
And Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord with all his house. And many of the Corinthians hearing, believed and were baptized.

(Acts 18:9) 
And the Lord said to Paul in the night by a vision: “Do not be afraid, but speak and do not keep silent;

(Acts 18:10) 
for I am with you, and no one will attack you to harm you, for I have many people in this city.”

(Acts 18:11) 
And he stayed there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.

(Acts 18:12) 
But when Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews with one accord rose up against Paul and brought him to the judgment seat,

(Acts 18:13) 
saying: “This fellow persuades men to worship God contrary to the law.”

(Acts 18:14) 
And when Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews: “If there were any act of wrongdoing or a wicked crime, O Jews, I would have reason to hear you.

(Acts 18:15) 
But if there are questions of words and names and your law, you yourselves look to it. I will not be a judge of these things.”

(Acts 18:16) 
And he drove them from the judgment seat.

(Acts 18:17) 
Then all the Greeks seized Sosthenes, the ruler of the synagogue, and beat him before the judgment seat. But Gallio was not concerned about any of these things.

(Acts 18:18) 
Then Paul, after staying many more days, took leave of the brothers and sailed away to Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila, having cut his hair in Cenchreae; for he had a vow.

(Acts 18:19) 
And he came to Ephesus, and he left them there. But he himself entered the synagogue and reasoned with the Jews.

(Acts 18:20) 
When they asked him to stay longer, he did not consent,

(Acts 18:21) 
but took leave of them, saying: “I must by all means keep this coming feast in Jerusalem. But I will return again to you, God willing.” And he set out from Ephesus.

(Acts 18:22) 
And when he had come down to Caesarea, he went up and greeted the church, and then he went down to Antioch.

(Acts 18:23) 
And having spent some time there, he departed and went through the region of Galatia and Phrygia in order, strengthening all the disciples.

(Acts 18:24) 
Now a certain Jew named Apollos, an Alexandrian by birth, an eloquent man, came to Ephesus, mighty in the Scriptures.

(Acts 18:25) 
This man was instructed in the way of the Lord, and being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught accurately the things concerning Jesus, knowing only the baptism of John.

(Acts 18:26) 
And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue. But when Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him and explained to him the way of God more accurately.

(Acts 18:27) 
And when he wanted to pass over to Achaia, the brothers wrote, exhorting the disciples to receive him. When he arrived, he greatly helped those who had believed,

(Acts 18:28) 
for he vigorously refuted the Jews publicly, showing by the Scriptures that Jesus is the Christ.

(Acts 19:1) 
After Apollos had moved on to Corinth, Paul traveled through the upper regions and came to Ephesus. There, he found some disciples,

(Acts 19:2) 
and he said to them, “Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?” They replied, “We haven’t even heard that there is a Holy Spirit.”

(Acts 19:3) 
He asked them, “Then how were you baptized?” They answered, “With John's baptism.”

(Acts 19:4) 
Paul then said, “John baptized with a baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after him, that is, Jesus.”

(Acts 19:5) 
After hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.

(Acts 19:6) 
And when Paul laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came upon them, and they began speaking in tongues and prophesying.

(Acts 19:7) 
There were about twelve men in all.

(Acts 19:8) 
He entered the synagogue, and for three months he spoke boldly, debating and persuading people about the kingdom of God.

(Acts 19:9) 
But when some of them hardened themselves and refused to believe, speaking evil of the Way before the crowd, he left them, and separated the disciples, arguing daily in the school of Tyrannus.

(Acts 19:10) 
This continued for two years, so that all the inhabitants of Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks.

(Acts 19:11) 
And God worked extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul,

(Acts 19:12) 
so that when they placed handkerchiefs or aprons that had touched his body on the sick, their diseases left them, and the evil spirits came out of them.

(Acts 19:13) 
Then some itinerant Jewish exorcists tried to invoke the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits, saying, “I adjure you by the Jesus whom Paul preaches.”

(Acts 19:14) 
There were seven sons of a Jewish high priest named Sceva who were doing this.

(Acts 19:15) 
But the evil spirit answered them, “Jesus I know, and Paul I know, but who are you?”

(Acts 19:16) 
And the man with the evil spirit leaped on them, overpowered them all, and they ran out of the house naked and wounded.

(Acts 19:17) 
This became known to everyone in Ephesus, both Jews and Greeks. Fear fell on them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified.

(Acts 19:18) 
Many of those who had believed came, confessing and divulging their practices.

(Acts 19:19) 
And a number of those who had practiced magic arts brought their books together and burned them in front of everyone. When they calculated the value of the books, they found that it came to fifty thousand pieces of silver.

(Acts 19:20) 
So the word of the Lord continued to grow and prevail.

(Acts 19:21) 
Now after these events, Paul decided in the Spirit to go through Macedonia and Achaia and then to go to Jerusalem, saying, “After I have been there, I must also see Rome.”

(Acts 19:22) 
So he sent two of his assistants, Timothy and Erastus, to Macedonia, while he himself stayed in Asia for a while.

(Acts 19:23) 
About that time, there arose a considerable disturbance concerning the Way.

(Acts 19:24) 
For a man named Demetrius, a silversmith, who made silver shrines of Artemis, was bringing no little business to the artisans.

(Acts 19:25) 
He gathered them together with the workmen of similar trades and said, “Men, you know that our prosperity depends on this business.

(Acts 19:26) 
You also see and hear that not only in Ephesus but in almost the whole of Asia, this Paul has persuaded and turned away a great many people, saying that gods made with hands are not gods.

(Acts 19:27) 
And there is danger not only that this trade of ours may be discredited, but also that the temple of the great goddess Artemis may be counted as nothing, and that she whom all of Asia and the world worship will be dethroned from her magnificence.”

(Acts 19:28) 
When they heard this, they were enraged and began crying out, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!”

(Acts 19:29) 
The city was filled with confusion, and they rushed together into the theater, dragging along Gaius and Aristarchus, Paul's Macedonian travel companions.

(Acts 19:30) 
But when Paul wanted to go in among the crowd, the disciples would not let him.

(Acts 19:31) 
Some of the Asiarchs, who were friends of his, also sent a message to him urging him not to venture into the theater.

(Acts 19:32) 
Now some cried out one thing, some another, for the assembly was in confusion, and most of them did not know why they had come together.

(Acts 19:33) 
Some of the crowd prompted Alexander, whom the Jews had put forward. And Alexander, motioning with his hand, wanted to make a defense to the crowd.

(Acts 19:34) 
But when they recognized that he was a Jew, for about two hours they all with one voice cried out, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!”

(Acts 19:35) 
And when the town clerk had quieted the crowd, he said, “Men of Ephesus, who is there who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is a worshiper of the great Artemis and of the image that fell from heaven?

(Acts 19:36) 
Since these things cannot be denied, you ought to be quiet and do nothing rash.

(Acts 19:37) 
For you have brought these men here who are neither sacrilegious nor blasphemers of our goddess.

(Acts 19:38) 
If therefore Demetrius and the craftsmen with him have a complaint against anyone, the courts are open, and there are proconsuls; let them bring charges against one another.

(Acts 19:39) 
But if you want anything further, it shall be settled in the regular assembly.

(Acts 19:40) 
For we are in danger of being charged with rioting today, since there is no cause for which we can give an account of this commotion.”

(Acts 19:41) 
And when he had said these things, he dismissed the assembly.

(Acts 20:1) 
After the riot had ended, Paul called together his disciples, and encouraged them. Then he departed, heading towards Macedonia.

(Acts 20:2) 
Having traveled throughout those areas, he encouraged them with many words. Then he came to Greece.

(Acts 20:3) 
He spent three months there. When the Jews plotted against him, intending to sail to Syria, he decided to return through Macedonia.

(Acts 20:4) 
Sopater, son of Pyrrhus, from Berea, Aristarchus and Secundus from Thessalonica, Gaius from Derbe, and Timothy accompanied him. Tychicus and Trophimus from Asia were also with him.

(Acts 20:5) 
These men went ahead and waited for us in Troas.

(Acts 20:6) 
After the Feast of Unleavened Bread, we sailed from Philippi. Five days later, we met them in Troas.

(Acts 20:7) 
On the first day of the week, when the disciples gathered to break bread, Paul spoke with them, since he was going to leave the next day. He kept speaking until midnight.

(Acts 20:8) 
There were many lamps in the upper room where we were gathered.

(Acts 20:9) 
A young man named Eutychus was sitting in a window. He was overcome by deep sleep while Paul was speaking at length, and falling from the third story, he was taken up dead.

(Acts 20:10) 
Paul went down and threw himself on him. Embracing him, he said, “Do not be alarmed, for his soul is in him.”

(Acts 20:11) 
Then he went upstairs, broke bread, and ate. He talked for a long time until dawn. Then he departed.

(Acts 20:12) 
They took the young man back alive, and they were greatly comforted.

(Acts 20:13) 
Meanwhile, we went ahead to the ship and sailed to Assos, where we were going to take Paul aboard, as he had planned. He himself would travel by land.

(Acts 20:14) 
When he met us in Assos, we took him aboard and went to Mitylene.

(Acts 20:15) 
We sailed from there and the next day arrived opposite Chios. The following day we put in at Samos, and the next day we arrived at Miletus.

(Acts 20:16) 
Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus so that he would not have to spend time in Asia, because he was hurrying to be in Jerusalem, if possible, for the day of Pentecost.

(Acts 20:17) 
From Miletus, he sent for the elders of the church in Ephesus.

(Acts 20:18) 
When they came to him, he said, “You know how I lived among you the whole time from the first day I came to Asia,

(Acts 20:19) 
“serving the Lord with all humility and with tears and trials, which befell me through the plots of the Jews.

(Acts 20:20) 
“How I did not shrink from declaring anything that was helpful for you, and teaching you publicly and from house to house,

(Acts 20:21) 
“testifying to both Jews and Greeks about repentance toward God and faith in our Lord Jesus.

(Acts 20:22) 
“And now, bound by the Spirit, I am going to Jerusalem, not knowing what will happen to me there,

(Acts 20:23) 
“except that the Holy Spirit testifies to me in every city that imprisonment and afflictions await me.

(Acts 20:24) 
“But I do not consider my life of any account as dear to myself, in order that I may finish my course and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify to the gospel of the grace of God.

(Acts 20:25) 
“And now, I know that you will no longer see my face, all of you among whom I went about preaching the kingdom.

(Acts 20:26) 
“Therefore, I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all of you.

(Acts 20:27) 
“For I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole purpose of God.

(Acts 20:28) 
“Be on guard for yourselves and for all the flock, among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to shepherd the church of God, which He purchased with His own blood.

(Acts 20:29) 
“I know that after my departure, savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock.

(Acts 20:30) 
“And from among your own selves, men will arise, speaking perverse things to draw away the disciples after them.

(Acts 20:31) 
“Therefore, be watchful, remembering that for three years I did not cease night and day to admonish each one with tears.

(Acts 20:32) 
“And now I commend you to God and to the word of His grace, who is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.

(Acts 20:33) 
“I coveted no one's silver or gold or clothes.

(Acts 20:34) 
“You yourselves know that these hands ministered to my necessities and to those who were with me.

(Acts 20:35) 
“In everything I showed you that by working hard in this manner you must help the weak and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that He Himself said, ‘It is more blessed to give than to receive.’ ”

(Acts 20:36) 
When he had said these things, he knelt down and prayed with them all.

(Acts 20:37) 
And they all wept a great deal, and falling on Paul’s neck, they kissed him,

(Acts 20:38) 
being especially grieved by the word which he had spoken, that they would not see his face again. And they accompanied him to the ship.

(Acts 21:1) 
After we escaped, we set sail. We sailed straight to Cos, and on the next day to Rhodes, and from there to Patara.

(Acts 21:2) 
We found a ship sailing to Phoenicia, and we boarded and set sail.

(Acts 21:3) 
We sighted Cyprus, leaving it to the left, and sailed to Syria. We landed at Tyre because the ship was going to unload its cargo there.

(Acts 21:4) 
Finding the disciples, we stayed there for seven days. Through the Holy Spirit, they warned Paul not to go up to Jerusalem.

(Acts 21:5) 
When our time there was up, we set out and continued on our way. They all, with their wives and children, escorted us out of the city. Kneeling down on the beach, we prayed.

(Acts 21:6) 
After saying goodbye to each other, we went aboard the ship, and they returned home.

(Acts 21:7) 
We continued our voyage and sailed from Tyre to Ptolemais, where we greeted the brothers and stayed with them for a day.

(Acts 21:8) 
The next day we set out and came to Caesarea. We entered the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the Seven, and stayed with him.

(Acts 21:9) 
He had four unmarried daughters who prophesied.

(Acts 21:10) 
As we were staying there for many days, a prophet named Agabus came down from Judea.

(Acts 21:11) 
He came to us and took Paul’s belt, and binding his own feet and hands, he said, “Thus says the Holy Spirit: ‘The man whose belt this is, the Jews will bind in Jerusalem and deliver into the hands of the Gentiles.’”

(Acts 21:12) 
When we heard this, we and the others there begged Paul not to go up to Jerusalem.

(Acts 21:13) 
Then Paul answered, “Why are you weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound, but also to die in Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.”

(Acts 21:14) 
When he would not be persuaded, we ceased and said, “The will of the Lord be done.”

(Acts 21:15) 
After these days, we got ready and went up to Jerusalem.

(Acts 21:16) 
Some of the disciples from Caesarea came with us, bringing us to the house of Mnason of Cyprus, an early disciple, where we were to stay.

(Acts 21:17) 
When we arrived in Jerusalem, the brothers received us gladly.

(Acts 21:18) 
The next day Paul went in with us to James, and all the elders were present.

(Acts 21:19) 
After greeting them, he related one by one the things that God had done among the Gentiles through his ministry.

(Acts 21:20) 
When they heard it, they glorified God. And they said to him, “You see, brother, how many thousands there are among the Jews of those who have believed. They are all zealous for the law.

(Acts 21:21) 
And they have been told about you, that you teach all the Jews who are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children or walk according to the customs.

(Acts 21:22) 
What then is to be done? They will certainly hear that you have come.

(Acts 21:23) 
Do therefore what we tell you. We have four men who have taken a vow.

(Acts 21:24) 
Take these men and purify yourself along with them, and pay their expenses, so that they may shave their heads. And all will know that there is nothing in what they have been told about you, but that you yourself also walk orderly, keeping the law.

(Acts 21:25) 
But as for the Gentiles who have believed, we have sent a letter with our decision that they should abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what has been strangled, and from sexual immorality.”

(Acts 21:26) 
Then Paul took the men, and the next day he purified himself with them and went into the temple, announcing the fulfillment of the days of purification, until the offering was offered for each one of them.

(Acts 21:27) 
When the seven days were almost completed, the Jews from Asia, seeing him in the temple, stirred up the whole crowd and laid hands on him,

(Acts 21:28) 
crying out, “Men of Israel, help! This is the man who is teaching everyone everywhere against the people and the law and this place. Moreover, he also brought Greeks into the temple and has defiled this holy place.”

(Acts 21:29) 
For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian with him in the city, and they supposed that Paul had brought him into the temple.

(Acts 21:30) 
The whole city was stirred up, and the people rushed together. They seized Paul and dragged him out of the temple, and immediately the doors were shut.

(Acts 21:31) 
As they were seeking to kill him, the report came to the tribune of the cohort that all Jerusalem was in confusion.

(Acts 21:32) 
He at once took soldiers and centurions and ran down to them. When they saw the tribune and the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul.

(Acts 21:33) 
Then the tribune came up and arrested him, and ordered him to be bound with two chains. He inquired who he was and what he had done.

(Acts 21:34) 
Some in the crowd were shouting one thing, some another. And as he could not learn the facts because of the uproar, he ordered him to be brought into the barracks.

(Acts 21:35) 
When he came to the steps, he was carried by the soldiers because of the violence of the crowd,

(Acts 21:36) 
for the mob of the people followed, crying out, “Away with him!”

(Acts 21:37) 
As Paul was about to be brought into the barracks, he said to the tribune, “May I say something to you?”

(Acts 21:38) 
And he replied, “Do you know Greek?

(Acts 21:39) 
Are you not the Egyptian, who before these days stirred up a revolt and led out into the desert the four thousand men of the Assassins?”

(Acts 21:40) 
Paul said, “I am a Jew, from Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of no mean city. I beg you, permit me to speak to the people.”

(Acts 22:1) 
Men, brothers, and fathers, hear now my defense!

(Acts 22:2) 
They were even more ready to listen when they heard Paul speaking Hebrew.

(Acts 22:3) 
Then Paul said: “I am a Jew, born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but raised in this city. I studied at the feet of Gamaliel, and I was taught in accordance with the law of our fathers. I was full of zeal for God, as all of you are today.

(Acts 22:4) 
I persecuted the followers of this new way, even to the point of death. I imprisoned men and women.

(Acts 22:5) 
The high priest and the entire council can testify to this. After receiving letters to the brothers, I was on my way to Damascus to bring back the prisoners who were there to Jerusalem to be punished.

(Acts 22:6) 
As I was on my way and approaching Damascus, around noon a bright light suddenly flashed around me from the universe:

(Acts 22:7) 
I fell to the ground and heard a voice say to me: ‘Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?’

(Acts 22:8) 
I answered, ‘Who are you, Lord?’ And He said to me, ‘I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you are persecuting.’

(Acts 22:9) 
Those who were with me saw the light, but they did not hear the voice of the one who was speaking to me.

(Acts 22:10) 
I said, ‘What shall I do, Lord?’ The Lord replied, ‘Go to Damascus, and there you will be told all that you are appointed to do.’

(Acts 22:11) 
Since I could not see because of the brightness of the light, I was led by the hand by those who were with me, and I went to Damascus.

(Acts 22:12) 
A man named Ananias, a devout observer of the Law, who was well respected by all the Jews living there,

(Acts 22:13) 
came and stood by me, and said, ‘Brother Saul, regain your sight.’ And at that very moment I looked up at him.

(Acts 22:14) 
He said, ‘The God of our ancestors has appointed you to know His will, to see the Righteous One, and to hear the sound of His voice.

(Acts 22:15) 
For you will be his witness to all people of what you have seen and heard.

(Acts 22:16) 
And now, why delay? Get up, be baptized, and wash away your sins, calling on His name.’

(Acts 22:17) 
It happened that when I returned to Jerusalem and was praying in the temple, I fell into a trance.

(Acts 22:18) 
I saw Him saying to me, ‘Hurry and get out of Jerusalem quickly, because they will not accept your testimony about me.’

(Acts 22:19) 
I said, ‘Lord, they themselves know that I imprisoned and beat those who believed in You in every synagogue.

(Acts 22:20) 
And when the blood of Your witness Stephen was being shed, I was there, agreeing with his execution, and guarding the clothes of those who were killing him.’

(Acts 22:21) 
Then He said to me, ‘Go, because I will send you far away to the nations.’

(Acts 22:22) 
They listened to him until he said this. Then they raised their voices and shouted, ‘Get rid of this man from the earth, for he is not worthy to live!’

(Acts 22:23) 
As they were shouting and throwing off their cloaks and tossing dust into the air,

(Acts 22:24) 
the tribune ordered Paul to be brought into the fortress and commanded that he be examined by scourging, to learn the reason why they were shouting against him.

(Acts 22:25) 
When they stretched him out for the whips, Paul said to the centurion standing by, ‘Is it legal for you to scourge a man who is a Roman citizen?’

(Acts 22:26) 
When the centurion heard this, he went to the tribune and told him, saying, ‘What are you about to do? For this man is a Roman citizen.’

(Acts 22:27) 
The tribune approached Paul and asked, ‘Tell me, are you a Roman citizen?’ And Paul replied, ‘I am.’

(Acts 22:28) 
The tribune answered, ‘I paid a large sum for this citizenship.’ Paul said, ‘But I was born a citizen.’

(Acts 22:29) 
Then immediately those who were about to examine him withdrew. The tribune was also afraid because he had bound Paul, since he knew that he was a Roman citizen.

(Acts 22:30) 
Wishing to know the real reason why the Jews were accusing him, the next day the tribune released Paul and ordered the chief priests and the entire Sanhedrin to assemble. Then he brought Paul down and placed him before them.

(Acts 23:1) 
Then Paul, looking at the council, said: "Brothers, I have lived before God with a clear conscience, even to this day."

(Acts 23:2) 
But the high priest Ananias commanded those who stood by to strike him on the mouth.

(Acts 23:3) 
Then Paul said to him: "God will strike you, you whitewashed wall! Do you sit there judging me according to the law, and then order me to be struck in violation of the law?"

(Acts 23:4) 
Those who stood by said: "Do you revile God's high priest?"

(Acts 23:5) 
And Paul said: "I did not know, brothers, that he was the high priest. For it is written, ‘You shall not speak evil of the ruler of your people.’"

(Acts 23:6) 
But Paul, knowing that one part of them were Sadducees and the other Pharisees, cried out in the council: "Brothers, I am a Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee. I am being judged for the hope and the resurrection of the dead."

(Acts 23:7) 
And when he had said this, there arose a division between the Pharisees and the Sadducees, and the multitude was divided.

(Acts 23:8) 
For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, nor angel, nor spirit, but the Pharisees confess both.

(Acts 23:9) 
Then a great cry arose, and the scribes of the Pharisees' party rose up, contending and saying: "We find no evil in this man. What if a spirit has spoken to him, or an angel?"

(Acts 23:10) 
And when a great dissension arose, the tribune, fearing lest Paul should be torn to pieces by them, commanded the soldiers to go down and take him from among them and bring him into the fortress.

(Acts 23:11) 
And the following night, the Lord stood by him and said: "Be of good cheer; for as you have testified of me in Jerusalem, so must you bear witness also at Rome."

(Acts 23:12) 
And when day came, the Jews formed a conspiracy and bound themselves under oath, saying that they would neither eat nor drink until they had killed Paul.

(Acts 23:13) 
There were more than forty who had formed this conspiracy.

(Acts 23:14) 
They went to the chief priests and the elders and said: "We have bound ourselves under a solemn oath to taste nothing until we have killed Paul."

(Acts 23:15) 
So now you, with the council, give notice to the tribune so that he may bring him down to you tomorrow, as though you were going to examine his case more fully. And we are ready to kill him before he comes near."

(Acts 23:16) 
But when Paul's sister's son heard of their ambush, he went and entered the fortress and told Paul.

(Acts 23:17) 
Then Paul called one of the centurions and said: "Take this young man to the tribune, for he has something to tell him."

(Acts 23:18) 
The centurion took him, and brought him to the tribune, and said: "Paul the prisoner called me and asked me to bring this young man to you, as he has something to say to you."

(Acts 23:19) 
The tribune took the young man by the hand and, taking him aside, asked him privately: "What is it that you have to tell me?"

(Acts 23:20) 
And he said: "The Jews have agreed to ask you to bring Paul down to the council tomorrow, as though they were going to inquire more fully about him.

(Acts 23:21) 
So do not listen to them, for more than forty men from among them are lying in wait for him, who have bound themselves under oath neither to eat nor drink until they have killed him. And they are now ready, waiting for your promise."

(Acts 23:22) 
Then the tribune dismissed the young man, charging him, "Tell no one that you have informed me of these things." 

(Acts 23:23) 
He then called two centurions and said: "Prepare two hundred soldiers to go to Caesarea, and seventy horsemen, and two hundred spearmen, at the third hour of the night."

(Acts 23:24) 
Also, provide mounts so that they may set Paul on them and bring him safely to Felix the governor."

(Acts 23:25) 
And he wrote a letter, which read as follows:

(Acts 23:26) 
"Claudius Lysias, to the most excellent governor Felix, greetings.

(Acts 23:27) 
This man was seized by the Jews and was about to be killed by them. When I learned that he was a Roman citizen, I came upon them with the soldiers.

(Acts 23:28) 
Desiring to know the cause why they accused him, I brought him down to their council.

(Acts 23:29) 
I found him to be accused over questions about their law, but as having no charge worthy of death or imprisonment.

(Acts 23:30) 
And when it was revealed to me that the Jews were planning an ambush for the man, I sent him to you without delay, and I also commanded his accusers to state their case before you. Farewell."

(Acts 23:31) 
So the soldiers, as they were commanded, took Paul and brought him by night to Antipatris.

(Acts 23:32) 
On the next day they left the horsemen to go with him, and they returned to the fortress.

(Acts 23:33) 
When they came to Caesarea and delivered the letter to the governor, they also presented Paul to him.

(Acts 23:34) 
And when he had read it, he asked him what province he was from. And when he learned that he was from Cilicia,

(Acts 23:35) 
"I will hear your case," he said, "when your accusers arrive." And he ordered him to be kept in Herod's praetorium.

(Acts 24:1) 
Five days later, Ananias the high priest went to Caesarea, along with some of the elders, and with the orator Tertullus. They made accusations against Paul to the governor.

(Acts 24:2) 
After Paul was summoned, Tertullus began his accusation, saying: "Since we are experiencing much peace through your wise governance, and many reforms are being made for our people by your foresight,"

(Acts 24:3) 
“we always and in all places acknowledge this, most excellent Felix, with all gratitude.

(Acts 24:4) 
But, so as not to detain you, I ask that you hear us briefly, with your usual kindness.

(Acts 24:5) 
“For we have found this man to be a pestilence, stirring up insurrections among all the Jews throughout the world, and a leader of the sect of the Nazarenes.

(Acts 24:6) 
“He even tried to profane the Temple. We arrested him.

(Acts 24:7) 
“But Lysias the tribune came and rescued him from our hands by using great force.

(Acts 24:8) 
“He ordered his accusers to come to you. From him, you can learn about all these things.

(Acts 24:9) 
“The Jews also joined in the accusation, asserting that these things were so.”

(Acts 24:10) 
Then Paul, by a nod from the governor, began his defense: “Knowing that you have been a judge over this nation for many years, I confidently make my defense.

(Acts 24:11) 
“For you can ascertain that it is no more than twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem to worship.

(Acts 24:12) 
“And they did not find me disputing with anyone in the Temple, or causing a riot among the people, nor in the synagogues, nor in the city.

(Acts 24:13) 
“And they cannot prove the things they now accuse me of.

(Acts 24:14) 
“But I confess this to you: that I worship the God of my ancestors in the way they call a heresy, believing everything laid down in the Law and the Prophets.

(Acts 24:15) 
“I have hope in God, which they themselves also await, that there will be a resurrection of the just and the unjust.

(Acts 24:16) 
“And so, I always strive to keep my conscience clear before God and men.

(Acts 24:17) 
“Now, after many years, I came to bring alms and offerings for my nation.

(Acts 24:18) 
“While I was in these activities, some Jews from Asia found me in the Temple. I was purified and not with a crowd or in an uproar.

(Acts 24:19) 
“They should have been here before you to make accusations, if they had any against me.

(Acts 24:20) 
“Or let these men here themselves state what wrong they found when I stood before the council,

(Acts 24:21) 
“unless it was for this one statement I cried out while standing among them: 'It is concerning the resurrection of the dead that I am being judged before you today.'

(Acts 24:22) 
Felix, having heard these things, postponed the hearing, saying: “When I have examined the case more carefully, I will decide it.

(Acts 24:23) 
He ordered the centurion to keep Paul in custody, but to allow him some freedom and not to prevent any of his friends from ministering to or visiting him.

(Acts 24:24) 
After some days, Felix came with his wife Drusilla, who was Jewish, and sent for Paul and heard him speak about the faith that is in Christ Jesus.

(Acts 24:25) 
And as Paul discussed righteousness, self-control, and the coming judgment, Felix was alarmed and said: "Go away for the present, and when I have an opportunity, I will send for you."

(Acts 24:26) 
At the same time, he hoped that money would be given to him by Paul, so he often sent for him and talked with him.

(Acts 24:27) 
When two years had passed, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus. Wishing to do the Jews a favor, Felix left Paul in prison.

(Acts 25:1) 
After Festus arrived in the province, he went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea after three days.

(Acts 25:2) 
The high priests and the Jewish leaders went to him and informed Festus about Paul, begging him,

(Acts 25:3) 
asking a favor against him, that he send him to Jerusalem. They were plotting to kill him along the way.

(Acts 25:4) 
Festus replied that Paul was being kept under guard in Caesarea and that he himself would be returning quickly.

(Acts 25:5) 
“Therefore,” he said, “let the men among you who are powerful go down with me and accuse him if there is anything wrong with the man.”

(Acts 25:6) 
After spending eight or ten days among them, he went down to Caesarea. The next day he sat on the tribunal and ordered Paul to be brought in.

(Acts 25:7) 
When he appeared, the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem stood around him, bringing many serious charges which they couldn't prove,

(Acts 25:8) 
while Paul defended himself, saying that he had committed no offense against the Jewish Law, nor against the Temple, nor against Caesar.

(Acts 25:9) 
Festus, wishing to do a favor for the Jews, answered Paul: “Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem and be judged there before me in these matters?”

(Acts 25:10) 
Paul said: “I am standing at Caesar’s tribunal, where I ought to be judged. I have done no wrong to the Jews, as you yourself well know.”

(Acts 25:11) 
“If I have done wrong, or have committed anything worthy of death, I don’t refuse to die. But if there is nothing in what these men accuse me of, no one can give me over to them. I appeal to Caesar.”

(Acts 25:12) 
Then Festus, after conferring with the council, answered: “You have appealed to Caesar; to Caesar you shall go.”

(Acts 25:13) 
After some days had passed, King Agrippa and Bernice came down to Caesarea and greeted Festus.

(Acts 25:14) 
After they had spent many days there, Festus explained Paul’s case to the king, saying: “There is a certain man left prisoner by Felix,

(Acts 25:15) 
about whom, when I was in Jerusalem, the high priests and the elders of the Jews asked for a judgment, demanding condemnation.

(Acts 25:16) 
I answered them that it is not the custom of the Romans to hand over any man before the accused has his accusers present, and he is allowed to defend himself against the charges.

(Acts 25:17) 
So when they came here, without delay, I sat on the tribunal the next day and ordered the man to be brought in.

(Acts 25:18) 
When the accusers stood around, they brought no charge of any wrongdoing that I suspected of him.

(Acts 25:19) 
But they had some questions about their own superstition against him, and about a certain Jesus who had died, whom Paul said was alive.

(Acts 25:20) 
Because I was uncertain about this question, I asked if he wanted to go to Jerusalem and be judged there concerning these matters.

(Acts 25:21) 
But when Paul appealed to be kept for the judgment of the Emperor, I ordered him to be kept in custody until I could send him to Caesar.”

(Acts 25:22) 
Then Agrippa said to Festus: “I would also like to hear the man.” “Tomorrow,” he said, “you will hear him.”

(Acts 25:23) 
The next day, when Agrippa and Bernice arrived with great pomp, and entered the audience hall with the tribunes and the leading men of the city, at the command of Festus, Paul was brought in.

(Acts 25:24) 
Festus said: “King Agrippa, and all of you here with us, you see this man, about whom the whole multitude of Jews has petitioned me, both in Jerusalem and here, crying out that he shouldn’t live any longer.

(Acts 25:25) 
But to me it seemed that he had done nothing deserving of death. But because he appealed to the Emperor, I have decided to send him.”

(Acts 25:26) 
“I don’t have anything certain to write to the Lord about him. Therefore I have brought him before you, and especially before you, King Agrippa, so that after the investigation, I may have something to write.

(Acts 25:27) 
“For it seems to me unreasonable to send a prisoner and not to show the charges against him.”

(Acts 26:1) 
Paul, writing with his own hand, said: “King Agrippa, I consider myself blessed that I have to defend myself today before you concerning all of the things of which you accuse me,

(Acts 26:2) 
especially because you are well acquainted with all the customs and the controversies among the Jews. I therefore beg you to listen to me patiently.

(Acts 26:3) 
For my life from my youth, which was from the beginning among my nation and in Jerusalem, is well known to all the Jews,

(Acts 26:4) 
who know me from the beginning, if they wish to bear witness, because I lived according to the strictest sect of our religion, as a Pharisee.

(Acts 26:5) 
And now I stand here to be judged for the hope of the promise which was made by God to our fathers,

(Acts 26:6) 
the hope of which the twelve tribes, continuously serving, hope to attain. Concerning this hope I am accused by the Jews, O king.

(Acts 26:7) 
Why do you consider it unbelievable that God raises the dead?

(Acts 26:8) 
I truly thought that I ought to do many things against the name of Jesus of Nazareth:

(Acts 26:9) 
and I did this in Jerusalem. I imprisoned many of the saints, having received authority from the chief priests. And when they were being put to death, I cast my vote against them.

(Acts 26:10) 
And punishing them often in every synagogue, I forced them to blaspheme. And I was extremely enraged at them, even persecuting them to distant cities.

(Acts 26:11) 
In which I was traveling to Damascus, with the authority and permission of the chief priests,

(Acts 26:12) 
at midday, O king, I saw on the road a light from the sky, brighter than the sun, shining around me and those who were with me.

(Acts 26:13) 
But when we all had fallen to the ground, I heard a voice speaking to me in the Hebrew language: “Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the goad.”

(Acts 26:14) 
And I said, “Who are you, Lord?” And the Lord said, “I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting.

(Acts 26:15) 
But rise up and stand on your feet; for I have appeared to you for this purpose, that I may appoint you as a minister and a witness of those things which you have seen and of those things in which I will appear to you,

(Acts 26:16) 
delivering you from the people and from the Gentiles, to whom I now send you,

(Acts 26:17) 
to open their eyes, that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance among those who are sanctified by faith in me.”

(Acts 26:18) 
Wherefore, O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision,

(Acts 26:19) 
but proclaimed to those of Damascus first, and in Jerusalem, and throughout all the country of Judea, and also to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, performing works worthy of repentance.

(Acts 26:20) 
For this reason the Jews, when I was in the temple, tried to kill me.

(Acts 26:21) 
Having therefore obtained help from God, I stand to this day, testifying both to small and great, saying nothing except those things which the prophets and Moses said would come to pass:

(Acts 26:22) 
that Christ should suffer, that He should be the first to rise from the dead, and that He would proclaim light to the people and to the Gentiles.”

(Acts 26:23) 
As he was saying these things in his defense, Festus said with a loud voice, “Paul, you are out of your mind! Much learning is driving you to madness.”

(Acts 26:24) 
But Paul said, “I am not out of my mind, most excellent Festus, but I am speaking the words of truth and soberness.

(Acts 26:25) 
For the king knows about these things, to whom I also speak with confidence. For I am persuaded that none of these things has escaped his notice, for this was not done in a corner.

(Acts 26:26) 
King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you believe.”

(Acts 26:27) 
Then Agrippa said to Paul, “In a short time you persuade me to become a Christian.”

(Acts 26:28) 
And Paul said, “I would to God that not only you, but also all those who hear me today, might become such as I am, except for these chains.”

(Acts 26:29) 
When he had said these things, the king, the governor, Bernice, and those who were sitting with them rose up;

(Acts 26:30) 
and when they had withdrawn, they talked with one another, saying, “This man is doing nothing worthy of death or chains.”

(Acts 26:31) 
Then Agrippa said to Festus, “This man could have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar.”

(Acts 27:1) 
When it was decided that we would sail for Italy, Paul and some other prisoners were handed over to a centurion named Julius, who was from the Augustan cohort.

(Acts 27:2) 
We boarded a ship from Adramyttium, which was about to sail to ports along the coast of Asia. Aristarchus of Thessalonica, a Macedonian, was with us.

(Acts 27:3) 
The next day, we put in at Sidon. Julius treated Paul kindly and allowed him to visit his friends and receive their care.

(Acts 27:4) 
We set sail from there and sailed along the coast of Cyprus, because the winds were against us.

(Acts 27:5) 
We sailed through the sea off Cilicia and Pamphylia, and arrived at Myra in Lycia.

(Acts 27:6) 
There the centurion found a ship from Alexandria that was sailing for Italy, and he put us aboard it.

(Acts 27:7) 
After sailing slowly for many days, we arrived with difficulty off Cnidus. Because the wind was against us, we sailed along the coast of Crete, near Salmone.

(Acts 27:8) 
We struggled to sail along it and came to a place called Fair Havens, near the city of Lasea.

(Acts 27:9) 
Since much time had passed and the voyage was now dangerous, because the Fast was already over, Paul warned them,

(Acts 27:10) 
“Men, I see that this voyage will be disastrous and cause great damage, not only to the ship and the cargo, but also to our lives.”

(Acts 27:11) 
But the centurion was more persuaded by the helmsman and the ship’s captain than by what Paul said.

(Acts 27:12) 
Because the harbor wasn’t suitable for wintering, most of them decided to sail on from there, hoping to reach Phoenix, a harbor in Crete facing southwest and northwest, to winter there.

(Acts 27:13) 
When a gentle south wind began to blow, thinking that they had obtained their purpose, they weighed anchor and sailed along Crete.

(Acts 27:14) 
But soon a hurricane-force wind, called the northeaster, struck the ship.

(Acts 27:15) 
The ship was caught and could not head into the wind, so we gave way to it and were driven along.

(Acts 27:16) 
Running under the lee of a small island called Cauda, we were barely able to get the ship’s boat under control. After hoisting it aboard, they used ropes to rig the ship, and fearing that they would run aground on the Syrtis, they lowered the sails and let the ship be driven along.

(Acts 27:17) 
The next day, as we were being violently tossed by the storm, they began to jettison cargo. On the third day, they threw the ship’s gear overboard with their own hands.

(Acts 27:18) 
When neither sun nor stars appeared for many days, and the storm continued raging, all hope of our being saved was at last gone.

(Acts 27:19) 
Since they had been without food for a long time, Paul stood up among them and said, “Men, you should have taken my advice not to set sail from Crete and have avoided this damage and loss.

(Acts 27:20) 
“But now I urge you to keep up your courage, because not one of you will be lost; only the ship will be lost.

(Acts 27:21) 
“For last night an angel of the God to whom I belong and whom I serve stood beside me

(Acts 27:22) 
and said, ‘Do not be afraid, Paul. You must stand trial before Caesar. And God has graciously given you the lives of all who sail with you.’

(Acts 27:23) 
So keep up your courage, men, for I have faith in God that it will happen just as he told me.

(Acts 27:24) 
“We must run aground on some island.”

(Acts 27:25) 
About midnight the sailors sensed that they were approaching land. They took soundings and found that the water was twenty fathoms deep. A short time later they took soundings again and found it was fifteen fathoms. Fearing that we would run aground on the rocks, they dropped four anchors from the stern and prayed for daylight.

(Acts 27:26) 
In an attempt to escape from the ship, the sailors let the lifeboat down into the sea, pretending they were going to let go anchors from the bow.

(Acts 27:27) 
Then Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, “Unless these men stay with the ship, you cannot be saved.”

(Acts 27:28) 
Then the soldiers cut the ropes that held the lifeboat and let it fall away.

(Acts 27:29) 
When daylight began to appear, Paul urged them all to take some food, saying, “For the past fourteen days you have been in constant suspense, without food, eating nothing.

(Acts 27:30) 
“Therefore I urge you to take some food. You need it for your survival, for not a hair of your head will be lost.”

(Acts 27:31) 
After he said this, he took some bread and gave thanks to God in front of them all. Then he broke it and began to eat.

(Acts 27:32) 
They were all encouraged and ate some food themselves.

(Acts 27:33) 
Altogether there were 276 of us on board.

(Acts 27:34) 
When they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship by throwing the grain into the sea.

(Acts 27:35) 
When day came, they did not recognize the land, but they saw a bay with a sandy beach, where they planned to run the ship ashore if they could.

(Acts 27:36) 
Cutting loose the anchors, they put out to sea, and at the same time loosened the ropes that held the rudders. They hoisted the foresail to the wind and sailed toward the beach.

(Acts 27:37) 
But striking a reef, the ship ran aground, and the bow stuck fast and remained immovable, but the stern was being broken to pieces by the surf.

(Acts 27:38) 
The soldiers planned to kill the prisoners, lest any of them should swim away and escape.

(Acts 27:39) 
But the centurion, wishing to save Paul, kept them from carrying out their plan. He ordered those who could swim to jump overboard first and get to land,

(Acts 27:40) 
and the rest on planks or on pieces of the ship. And so it was that all were brought safely to land.

(Acts 28:1) 
After we survived the shipwreck, we learned that the island was called Melita.

(Acts 28:2) 
The local people treated us with uncommon kindness.

(Acts 28:3) 
They lit a fire and welcomed us all because of the rain and the cold.

(Acts 28:4) 
Paul gathered a bundle of brushwood and put it on the fire. A viper, driven out by the heat, fastened itself on his hand.

(Acts 28:5) 
When the local people saw the snake hanging from his hand, they said to one another, “Surely this man is a murderer! Though he escaped from the sea, justice has not allowed him to live.”

(Acts 28:6) 
Paul, however, shook the snake into the fire and suffered no harm.

(Acts 28:7) 
They were expecting him to swell up or suddenly fall down dead. But after they had waited a long time and saw that nothing happened to him, they changed their minds and said that he was a god.

(Acts 28:8) 
Near that place were the lands of the chief man of the island, whose name was Publius. He welcomed us and showed us generous hospitality for three days.

(Acts 28:9) 
It happened that Publius' father was sick with a fever and dysentery. Paul went in to see him, and after praying and laying his hands on him, he healed him.

(Acts 28:10) 
After this happened, the rest of the people on the island who had diseases also came and were cured.

(Acts 28:11) 
They honored us with many honors, and when we set sail, they put on board whatever we needed.

(Acts 28:12) 
After three months, we set sail in an Alexandrian ship that had wintered on the island. It had the figurehead of the twin gods, Castor and Pollux.

(Acts 28:13) 
We put in at Syracuse and stayed there for three days.

(Acts 28:14) 
From there we sailed along and arrived at Rhegium. The next day the south wind came up, and we reached Puteoli.

(Acts 28:15) 
There we found some brothers and sisters and were invited to stay with them for seven days. And so we came to Rome.

(Acts 28:16) 
The brothers and sisters there heard that we were coming and came as far as the Market of Appius and Three Taverns to meet us. When Paul saw them, he thanked God and took courage.

(Acts 28:17) 
When we reached Rome, Paul was allowed to live by himself, with the soldier who was guarding him.

(Acts 28:18) 
After three days, Paul called together the leaders of the Jews. When they had come together, he said to them, “Brothers, although I had done nothing against our people or the customs of our ancestors, I was arrested in Jerusalem and handed over to the Romans.

(Acts 28:19) 
The Romans, after examining me, wanted to release me, because there was no reason for the death penalty in my case.

(Acts 28:20) 
But when the Jews objected, I was compelled to appeal to Caesar—not that I had anything to accuse my nation of.

(Acts 28:21) 
For this reason, therefore, I have asked to see you and speak with you. For it is because of the hope of Israel that I am bound with this chain.”

(Acts 28:22) 
They replied, “We have neither received any letters from Judea concerning you, nor has any of the brothers come here to report or speak any evil about you.

(Acts 28:23) 
But we want to hear from you what you think, for we know that this sect is spoken against everywhere.”

(Acts 28:24) 
So they arranged a day with him, and they came to him at his lodging in great numbers. He was explaining things to them, and he was testifying about the kingdom of God. From morning until evening, he was trying to convince them about Jesus, using the Law of Moses and the Prophets.

(Acts 28:25) 
Some were convinced by what he said, but others disbelieved.

(Acts 28:26) 
They disagreed among themselves and began to leave, after Paul had made this final statement: “The Holy Spirit spoke rightly to your ancestors through the prophet Isaiah, saying,

(Acts 28:27) 
‘Go to this people and say: “You will keep on hearing, but will never understand; you will keep on seeing, but will never perceive.

(Acts 28:28) 
For the heart of this people has grown dull, and their ears are hard of hearing, and they have closed their eyes, so that they might not see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their heart and turn, and I would heal them.’

(Acts 28:29) 
Therefore let it be known to you that this salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles, and they will listen!”

(Acts 28:30) 
Paul spent two whole years in his own rented house, and he welcomed all who visited him,

(Acts 28:31) 
proclaiming the kingdom of God and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness and without hindrance.