(Galatians 1:1) 
Paul, a sent one (not appointed by humans, nor through a human intermediary, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead),

(Galatians 1:2) 
and all the brothers who are with me, to the churches of Galatia.

(Galatians 1:3) 
May grace and peace be given to you from God the Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ,

(Galatians 1:4) 
who gave Himself to atone for our sins so that we might be rescued from this present evil world, according to the will of God our Father,

(Galatians 1:5) 
to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.

(Galatians 1:6) 
I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting Him who called you to experience the grace of Christ, in order to follow a different gospel;

(Galatians 1:7) 
which is not really a gospel at all; some people are troubling you, and want to change the gospel of Christ.

(Galatians 1:8) 
But even if we, or an angel from heaven, were to evangelize to you anything other than what we evangelized to you, may he be cursed.

(Galatians 1:9) 
As we have said before, so I now say again: If anyone evangelizes to you anything beyond what you have already received, may he be cursed.

(Galatians 1:10) 
Am I now trying to win the favor of men, or of God? Or am I striving to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a servant of Christ.

(Galatians 1:11) 
For I would have you know, brothers, that the gospel that was evangelized by me is not a human invention.

(Galatians 1:12) 
I did not receive it from any human, nor was I taught it, but it came through a revelation of Jesus Christ.

(Galatians 1:13) 
For you have heard of my former way of life in Judaism: how I persecuted the Church of God beyond measure and tried to destroy it.

(Galatians 1:14) 
And I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age among my people, being more exceedingly zealous for the traditions of my fathers.

(Galatians 1:15) 
But when it pleased Him Who set me apart from birth, and called me through His grace,

(Galatians 1:16) 
to reveal His Son in me, so that I might evangelize Him among the Gentiles, I did not immediately consult with flesh and blood,

(Galatians 1:17) 
nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me; rather, I went away into Arabia, and returned again to Damascus.

(Galatians 1:18) 
Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter, and stayed with him for fifteen days.

(Galatians 1:19) 
But I saw none of the other apostles except James, the brother of the Lord.

(Galatians 1:20) 
In what I am writing to you, before God, I do not lie.

(Galatians 1:21) 
Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia.

(Galatians 1:22) 
And I was still unknown in face to the churches of Judea that were in Christ:

(Galatians 1:23) 
they only heard: “The one who formerly persecuted us is now evangelizing the faith that he once tried to destroy.”

(Galatians 1:24) 
And they were glorifying God in me.

(Galatians 2:1) 
Then after fourteen years, I returned to Jerusalem with Barnabas, bringing along Titus as well.

(Galatians 2:2) 
I went up because of a revelation. I presented the Gospel that I preach to the Gentiles, but I did so privately to those who seemed to be important leaders, to be certain that I wasn't running in vain.

(Galatians 2:3) 
But even Titus, who was with me, was not forced to be circumcised, even though he was a Greek.

(Galatians 2:4) 
This was because of certain false brothers who were secretly brought in. They were trying to find out about the freedom we have in Christ Jesus, to put us back into slavery.

(Galatians 2:5) 
We did not yield to these men for a single hour, nor did we give in to them. We did this so the truth of the Gospel would remain with you.

(Galatians 2:6) 
And from those who seemed to be something, it makes no difference to me what they once were—God shows no partiality. These so-called leaders added nothing to my Gospel.

(Galatians 2:7) 
On the contrary, they saw that I had been entrusted with the Gospel for the uncircumcised, just as Peter had been entrusted with the Gospel for the circumcised.

(Galatians 2:8) 
(For the one who worked through Peter in his ministry to the circumcised also worked through me among the Gentiles:)

(Galatians 2:9) 
And when James, Cephas, and John, who seemed to be pillars, recognized the grace that had been given to me, they gave to Barnabas and me the right hand of fellowship. They agreed that we should go to the Gentiles, and they to the circumcised.

(Galatians 2:10) 
All they asked was that we should remember the poor, which is what I was very eager to do.

(Galatians 2:11) 
But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face, because he stood condemned.

(Galatians 2:12) 
Before certain men came from James, Peter used to eat with the Gentiles. But when they arrived, he began to draw back and separate himself, because he was afraid of those who belonged to the circumcision group.

(Galatians 2:13) 
The other Jews joined him in his hypocrisy, so that even Barnabas was led astray by their hypocrisy.

(Galatians 2:14) 
When I saw that they were not acting in line with the truth of the Gospel, I said to Cephas in front of everyone, “If you, who are a Jew, live like a Gentile and not like a Jew, how can you force Gentiles to live like Jews?

(Galatians 2:15) 
We are Jews by birth, and not sinners from among the Gentiles;

(Galatians 2:16) 
yet we know that a person is not justified by the works of the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ. So we, too, have believed in Christ Jesus, that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the law, because by the works of the law no one will be justified.

(Galatians 2:17) 
But if, in seeking to be justified in Christ, we ourselves are found to be sinners, then does that mean Christ promotes sin? Absolutely not!

(Galatians 2:18) 
For if I rebuild what I have destroyed, I become a transgressor.

(Galatians 2:19) 
For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live for God. I have been crucified with Christ.

(Galatians 2:20) 
It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.

(Galatians 2:21) 
I do not set aside the grace of God, for if righteousness could be gained through the law, Christ died for nothing!

(Galatians 3:1) 
O you foolish Galatians! Who has bewitched you, that you should not obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was presented, crucified among you?

(Galatians 3:2) 
This only I want to learn from you: Did you receive the Spirit by the works of the Law, or by the hearing of faith?

(Galatians 3:3) 
Are you so foolish? Having begun in the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh?

(Galatians 3:4) 
Have you suffered so many things in vain? If it is indeed in vain.

(Galatians 3:5) 
He therefore who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you, does He do it by the works of the Law, or by the hearing of faith?

(Galatians 3:6) 
As Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness.

(Galatians 3:7) 
Know therefore that those who are of faith, are the sons of Abraham.

(Galatians 3:8) 
And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, announced to Abraham: “In you shall all the nations be blessed.”

(Galatians 3:9) 
Therefore those who are of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham.

(Galatians 3:10) 
For as many as are of the works of the Law are under a curse; for it is written: “Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all things which are written in the book of the Law, to do them.”

(Galatians 3:11) 
But that by the Law no one is justified with God is clear, for “the just man lives by faith.”

(Galatians 3:12) 
But the Law is not of faith, but “he who does them shall live in them.”

(Galatians 3:13) 
Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the Law, having been made a curse for us, for it is written: “Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree,”

(Galatians 3:14) 
so that the blessing of Abraham might come upon the Gentiles in Christ Jesus, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.

(Galatians 3:15) 
Brothers, I speak in human terms: even though it is only a man’s covenant, when it has been ratified, no one annuls it or adds to it.

(Galatians 3:16) 
Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He does not say, “And to seeds,” as referring to many, but as to one, “And to your seed,” who is Christ.

(Galatians 3:17) 
Now I say this: The Law, which came four hundred and thirty years later, does not annul a covenant previously ratified by God, so as to make the promise invalid.

(Galatians 3:18) 
For if the inheritance is of the Law, it is no longer of promise; but God granted it to Abraham through promise.

(Galatians 3:19) 
Why then the Law? It was added because of transgressions, until the Seed should come to whom the promise was made, having been ordained through angels in the hand of a mediator.

(Galatians 3:20) 
Now a mediator is not for one only, but God is one.

(Galatians 3:21) 
Is the Law then against the promises of God? By no means! For if a law had been given which could give life, then righteousness would indeed be by the Law.

(Galatians 3:22) 
But the Scripture has confined all things under sin, that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe.

(Galatians 3:23) 
But before faith came, we were kept under the Law, confined until the faith which was to be revealed would come.

(Galatians 3:24) 
Therefore the Law was our tutor in Christ, that we might be justified by faith.

(Galatians 3:25) 
But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor.

(Galatians 3:26) 
For you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus.

(Galatians 3:27) 
For as many of you as were baptized into Christ, have put on Christ.

(Galatians 3:28) 
There is neither Jew nor Greek; there is neither slave nor free; there is neither male nor female; for you are all one in Christ Jesus.

(Galatians 3:29) 
And if you are Christ’s, then you are Abraham’s seed, and heirs according to the promise.

(Galatians 4:1) 
I mean, as long as the heir is a child, he is no different from a servant, even though he owns everything,

(Galatians 4:2) 
but he is under guardians and managers until the time fixed by his father.

(Galatians 4:3) 
So too, when we were children, we were enslaved to the basic principles of this world.

(Galatians 4:4) 
But when the time had fully come, God sent forth the Son on a mission by God, born of a woman, born under the Law,

(Galatians 4:5) 
to redeem those who were under the Law, so that we might receive adoption as sons.

(Galatians 4:6) 
And because you are sons, God sent the Spirit of His Son on a mission by God into our hearts, crying out, “Abba! Father!”

(Galatians 4:7) 
So you are no longer a slave, but a son; and if a son, then an heir through God.

(Galatians 4:8) 
However, formerly, when you did not know God, you were enslaved to those who by nature are not gods.

(Galatians 4:9) 
But now that you have known God, or rather have been known by God, how can you turn back again to the weak and beggarly elemental spirits? Do you want to be enslaved to them again?

(Galatians 4:10) 
You observe days and months and seasons and years.

(Galatians 4:11) 
I fear for you, that perhaps I have labored over you in vain.

(Galatians 4:12) 
Become like me, because I also became like you, brothers. I beg you: you have done me no wrong.

(Galatians 4:13) 
You know that because of a physical illness I preached the gospel to you at first.

(Galatians 4:14) 
And though my condition was a trial for you, you did not despise or reject me, but received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus.

(Galatians 4:15) 
What has become of your blessedness? For I testify that, if possible, you would have plucked out your eyes and given them to me.

(Galatians 4:16) 
So have I become your enemy by telling you the truth?

(Galatians 4:17) 
They make much of you, but not in a good way; they want to shut you out, so that you will make much of them.

(Galatians 4:18) 
It is always good to be made much of, in a good way, and not only when I am present with you,

(Galatians 4:19) 
My children, for whom I am again in the pain of childbirth until Christ is formed in you!

(Galatians 4:20) 
I wish I could be present with you now and change my tone, because I am perplexed about you.

(Galatians 4:21) 
Tell me, you who want to be under the Law, do you not listen to the Law?

(Galatians 4:22) 
For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by a slave woman and one by a free woman.

(Galatians 4:23) 
But the son of the slave woman was born according to the flesh, while the son of the free woman was born through promise.

(Galatians 4:24) 
This is an allegory: for these women are two covenants. One is from Mount Sinai, bearing children for slavery; she is Hagar.

(Galatians 4:25) 
Now Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia; she corresponds to the present Jerusalem, for she is in slavery with her children.

(Galatians 4:26) 
But the Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother.

(Galatians 4:27) 
For it is written, “Rejoice, O barren one who does not bear; break forth and cry aloud, you who are not in labor; for the children of the desolate one are more than those of the one who has a husband.”

(Galatians 4:28) 
Now you, brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise.

(Galatians 4:29) 
But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also now.

(Galatians 4:30) 
But what does the Scripture say? “Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman.”

(Galatians 4:31) 
So, brothers, we are not children of the slave woman but of the free woman.

(Galatians 5:1) 
Be free, therefore! Christ freed us. Do not be enslaved again.

(Galatians 5:2) 
I, Paul, say this: if you are circumcised, Christ will not benefit you in any way.

(Galatians 5:3) 
I testify again to any man who is circumcised that he is obligated to keep the whole Law.

(Galatians 5:4) 
You have been severed from Christ, all of you who try to become justified by the Law; you have fallen from grace.

(Galatians 5:5) 
We eagerly await through the Spirit, by faith, the hope of righteousness.

(Galatians 5:6) 
For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything, but only faith working through love.

(Galatians 5:7) 
You were running well. Who stopped you from obeying the truth?

(Galatians 5:8) 
This kind of persuasion does not come from the One who called you.

(Galatians 5:9) 
A little bit of yeast leavens the whole lump.

(Galatians 5:10) 
I am confident in you in the Lord that you will think in no other way; but the one who is troubling you will pay the penalty, whoever he may be.

(Galatians 5:11) 
As for me, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still persecuted? Then the stumbling block of the cross has been removed.

(Galatians 5:12) 
I wish those who unsettle you would castrate themselves!

(Galatians 5:13) 
For you were called to freedom, brothers. But do not use this freedom as an opportunity for the flesh; rather, serve one another through love.

(Galatians 5:14) 
For the whole Law is fulfilled in one statement: “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”

(Galatians 5:15) 
But if you bite and devour one another, see that you are not consumed by one another.

(Galatians 5:16) 
But I say: walk in the Spirit, and do not gratify the desires of the flesh.

(Galatians 5:17) 
For the flesh has desires against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; for these are opposed to each other, so that you do not do what you want.

(Galatians 5:18) 
But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the Law.

(Galatians 5:19) 
Now the works of the flesh are obvious: immorality, impurity, licentiousness,

(Galatians 5:20) 
idolatry, sorcery, hatreds, rivalry, jealousy, outbursts of anger, selfish ambitions, dissensions, factions,

(Galatians 5:21) 
envy, drunkenness, carousing, and things like these. I am warning you, as I warned you before: those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.

(Galatians 5:22) 
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control;

(Galatians 5:23) 
against such things there is no law.

(Galatians 5:24) 
Now those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.

(Galatians 5:25) 
If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit.

(Galatians 5:26) 
Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another.

(Galatians 6:1) 
Brothers, if a man is caught in some sin, you who are spiritual should correct him with the spirit of gentleness, being mindful of yourself, lest you also be tempted.

(Galatians 6:2) 
Carry one another's burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ.

(Galatians 6:3) 
For if anyone thinks himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceives himself.

(Galatians 6:4) 
But let each one examine his own work, and then he will have his boasting in himself alone, and not in another.

(Galatians 6:5) 
For each one will bear his own burden.

(Galatians 6:6) 
Let the one who is taught in the word share all good things with the one who teaches.

(Galatians 6:7) 
Do not be deceived: God is not mocked. For whatever a man sows, that he will also reap.

(Galatians 6:8) 
For he who sows to his flesh will from the flesh reap corruption; but he who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life.

(Galatians 6:9) 
And let us not grow weary in doing good, for at the proper time we will reap, if we do not give up.

(Galatians 6:10) 
So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to all, but especially to those who are of the household of faith.

(Galatians 6:11) 
See with what large letters I have written to you with my own hand.

(Galatians 6:12) 
Those who want to make a good show in the flesh are the ones who try to compel you to be circumcised, simply so that they may not suffer persecution for the cross of Christ.

(Galatians 6:13) 
For even those who are circumcised do not keep the law, but they want you to be circumcised so that they may boast in your flesh.

(Galatians 6:14) 
But may it never be that I should boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world.

(Galatians 6:15) 
For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision is of any avail, but a new creation.

(Galatians 6:16) 
And as for all who will follow this rule, may peace and mercy be upon them, and upon the Israel of God.

(Galatians 6:17) 
From now on, let no one bother me; for I bear the marks of the Lord Jesus in my body.

(Galatians 6:18) 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers. Amen.