(Ephesians 1:1) 
Paul, a commissioned apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the holy ones who are at Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus.

(Ephesians 1:2) 
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.

(Ephesians 1:3) 
Blessed be God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the universe, in Christ,

(Ephesians 1:4) 
even as He chose us in Him before the beginning of the universe, that we should be holy and without blemish before Him in love,

(Ephesians 1:5) 
who predestined us to be adopted as sons through Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the purpose of His will,

(Ephesians 1:6) 
to the praise of the glory of His grace, with which He has graced us in His beloved Son.

(Ephesians 1:7) 
In Him we have redemption through His blood, the remission of sins according to the riches of His grace,

(Ephesians 1:8) 
which He poured out on us in all wisdom and prudence,

(Ephesians 1:9) 
making known to us the mystery of His will, according to His good pleasure which He purposed in Him,

(Ephesians 1:10) 
to be carried out in the fullness of time: that He would bring all things together in Christ, those in the universe and those on the earth—in Him;

(Ephesians 1:11) 
in whom also we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of Him who works all things according to the counsel of His will,

(Ephesians 1:12) 
so that we who first hoped in Christ might be to the praise of His glory.

(Ephesians 1:13) 
In Him, you also, after listening to the word of truth, the Gospel of your salvation—in Him, after you also believed, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise,

(Ephesians 1:14) 
who is the pledge of our inheritance, with a view to the redemption of God's own possession, to the praise of His glory.

(Ephesians 1:15) 
For this reason I also, having heard of the faith in the Lord Jesus which is among you and your love for all the saints,

(Ephesians 1:16) 
do not cease to give thanks for you, while making mention of you in my prayers,

(Ephesians 1:17) 
that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him,

(Ephesians 1:18) 
the eyes of your heart being enlightened, so that you may know what is the hope of His calling, what are the riches of the glory of His inheritance in the saints,

(Ephesians 1:19) 
and what is the surpassing greatness of His power toward us who believe, in accordance with the working of the strength of His might,

(Ephesians 1:20) 
which He brought about in Christ, when He raised Him from the dead and seated Him at His right hand in the universe,

(Ephesians 1:21) 
far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this age but also in the one to come.

(Ephesians 1:22) 
And He put all things in subjection under His feet, and gave Him as head over all things to the Church,

(Ephesians 1:23) 
which is His body, the fullness of Him who fills all in all.

(Ephesians 2:1) 
When you were dead, because of your sins and failings,

(Ephesians 2:2) 
you lived according to the ways of the world. You followed the devil, the prince of the power of the air, the evil spirit who now works in those who do not believe,

(Ephesians 2:3) 
Like them, we all once lived in the desires of our flesh, doing what our flesh and minds wanted. We were by nature children of wrath, like everyone else.

(Ephesians 2:4) 
But God, who is rich in mercy, because of his great love for us,

(Ephesians 2:5) 
made us alive with Christ, even when we were dead in sins. God saved you by his grace.

(Ephesians 2:6) 
And God raised us up with Christ and seated us with him in the heavens,

(Ephesians 2:7) 
to show in the ages to come the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus.

(Ephesians 2:8) 
For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God,

(Ephesians 2:9) 
not because of works, lest anyone should boast.

(Ephesians 2:10) 
For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.

(Ephesians 2:11) 
Therefore remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh, called “the uncircumcision” by what is called the circumcision, which is done in the flesh by hands,

(Ephesians 2:12) 
were at that time separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world.

(Ephesians 2:13) 
But now in Christ Jesus you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ.

(Ephesians 2:14) 
For he himself is our peace, who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility

(Ephesians 2:15) 
by abolishing the law of commandments and ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace,

(Ephesians 2:16) 
and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility.

(Ephesians 2:17) 
And he came and preached peace to you who were far off and peace to those who were near.

(Ephesians 2:18) 
For through him we both have access in one Spirit to the Father.

(Ephesians 2:19) 
So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God,

(Ephesians 2:20) 
built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone,

(Ephesians 2:21) 
in whom the whole structure, being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord.

(Ephesians 2:22) 
In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit.

(Ephesians 3:1) 
For this cause, I, Paul, the one imprisoned for the sake of Jesus Christ for the sake of you who are not Jews—

(Ephesians 3:2) 
Assuming you’ve heard about the special plan of God’s grace, which was given to me for your sake:

(Ephesians 3:3) 
That by a direct revelation, I have come to understand the mystery of the Church—just as I have written briefly above—

(Ephesians 3:4) 
By reading this, you will see my insight into the mystery of Christ.

(Ephesians 3:5) 
This mystery was not made known to those who lived in past generations, but now it has been revealed to the holy apostles and prophets, through the Holy Spirit:

(Ephesians 3:6) 
That the non-Jews are co-heirs and members of the same body, who share in the promises in Christ Jesus, through the Gospel:

(Ephesians 3:7) 
Of this Gospel, I have become a servant, through the gift of God’s grace, which was given to me through the working of His power.

(Ephesians 3:8) 
This grace was given to me, who is the least of all the saints: that I should announce the good news of Christ’s riches to all the non-Jewish nations.

(Ephesians 3:9) 
And to give understanding of what is the plan of this mystery, which was hidden for all time in God, who created all things.

(Ephesians 3:10) 
The purpose of this is that, now, the principalities and powers in the universe may come to know the many forms of God’s wisdom, through the Church.

(Ephesians 3:11) 
This plan was according to the eternal intention, which He made in Christ Jesus Our Lord:

(Ephesians 3:12) 
In Him we have confidence, and through faith in Him, we are free to approach God.

(Ephesians 3:13) 
So I ask that you do not be discouraged by my sufferings for your sake, which is your glory.

(Ephesians 3:14) 
Because of this, I bow my knees before the Father of Our Lord Jesus Christ,

(Ephesians 3:15) 
From whom all family in the universe, and on the earth, are named.

(Ephesians 3:16) 
May He grant that you, according to the riches of His glory, be strengthened with power through His Spirit in the inner self,

(Ephesians 3:17) 
That Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith; may you be rooted and grounded in love,

(Ephesians 3:18) 
So that you may have the power to comprehend, with all the saints, what is the breadth, and length, and height, and depth—

(Ephesians 3:19) 
To know also the surpassing love of Christ, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God.

(Ephesians 3:20) 
Now to Him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think, according to the power at work within us,

(Ephesians 3:21) 
To Him be glory in the Church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen.

(Ephesians 4:1) 
So I, a prisoner for the Lord, beg you to live a life worthy of the calling you have received.

(Ephesians 4:2) 
Be humble and gentle, be patient, bearing with one another in love,

(Ephesians 4:3) 
make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace.

(Ephesians 4:4) 
There is one body and one Spirit, just as you were called to one hope when you were called,

(Ephesians 4:5) 
one Lord, one faith, one baptism,

(Ephesians 4:6) 
one God and Father of all, who is over all, and through all, and in all.

(Ephesians 4:7) 
But to each one of us grace has been given as Christ apportioned it.

(Ephesians 4:8) 
This is why it says: “When he ascended on high, he took many captives and gave gifts to mankind.”

(Ephesians 4:9) 
(What does “he ascended” mean except that he also descended to the lower, earthly regions?

(Ephesians 4:10) 
He who descended is the very one who ascended higher than all the heavens, in order to fill the whole universe.)

(Ephesians 4:11) 
So Christ himself gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the pastors and teachers,

(Ephesians 4:12) 
to equip his people for works of service, so that the body of Christ may be built up

(Ephesians 4:13) 
until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God, as we mature to the full measure of the stature of Christ.

(Ephesians 4:14) 
Then we will no longer be infants, tossed back and forth by the waves, and blown here and there by every wind of teaching and by the cunning and craftiness of people in their deceitful scheming.

(Ephesians 4:15) 
Instead, speaking the truth in love, we will grow to become in every respect the mature body of him who is the head, that is, Christ.

(Ephesians 4:16) 
From him the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love, as each part does its work.

(Ephesians 4:17) 
So I tell you this, and insist on it in the Lord, that you must no longer live as the Gentiles do, in the futility of their thinking.

(Ephesians 4:18) 
They are darkened in their understanding and separated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them due to the hardening of their hearts.

(Ephesians 4:19) 
Having lost all sensitivity, they have given themselves over to sensuality so as to indulge in every kind of impurity, and they are full of greed.

(Ephesians 4:20) 
That, however, is not the way of life you learned

(Ephesians 4:21) 
when you heard about Christ and were taught in him in accordance with the truth that is in Jesus.

(Ephesians 4:22) 
You were taught, with regard to your former way of life, to put off your old self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires;

(Ephesians 4:23) 
to be made new in the attitude of your minds;

(Ephesians 4:24) 
and to put on the new self, created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness.

(Ephesians 4:25) 
Therefore each of you must put off falsehood and speak truthfully to your neighbor, for we are all members of one body.

(Ephesians 4:26) 
“In your anger do not sin”: Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry,

(Ephesians 4:27) 
and do not give the devil a foothold.

(Ephesians 4:28) 
Anyone who has been stealing must steal no longer, but must work, doing something useful with their own hands, that they may have something to share with those in need.

(Ephesians 4:29) 
Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only what is helpful for building others up according to their needs, that it may benefit those who listen.

(Ephesians 4:30) 
And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, with whom you were sealed for the day of redemption.

(Ephesians 4:31) 
Get rid of all bitterness, rage and anger, brawling and slander, along with every form of malice.

(Ephesians 4:32) 
Be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you.

(Ephesians 5:1) 
So, become imitators of God, as beloved children.

(Ephesians 5:2) 
And walk in love, just as Christ loved us, and offered Himself for us, an offering and sacrifice to God for a pleasing fragrance.

(Ephesians 5:3) 
But fornication and every impurity or greed, let it not even be named among you, as is fitting for saints.

(Ephesians 5:4) 
Or indecency, or foolish talk, or obscenity, which are not becoming, but rather thanksgiving.

(Ephesians 5:5) 
For know and understand this: that every fornicator or impure person or the greedy, who is a servant of idols, does not have an inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.

(Ephesians 5:6) 
Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things comes the wrath of God upon the sons of disobedience.

(Ephesians 5:7) 
Therefore, do not be partakers with them.

(Ephesians 5:8) 
For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light.

(Ephesians 5:9) 
(for the fruit of light is in all goodness and justice and truth),

(Ephesians 5:10) 
proving what is pleasing to God.

(Ephesians 5:11) 
And do not share in the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them.

(Ephesians 5:12) 
For the things done by them in secret, it is shameful even to speak of.

(Ephesians 5:13) 
But all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light.

(Ephesians 5:14) 
For everything that is made manifest is light.

(Ephesians 5:15) 
Therefore, it says: "Awake, you who sleep, and arise from the dead, and Christ will enlighten you."

(Ephesians 5:16) 
See, therefore, brothers, how carefully you walk: not as unwise,

(Ephesians 5:17) 
but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil.

(Ephesians 5:18) 
Therefore, do not become foolish, but understanding what the will of God is.

(Ephesians 5:19) 
And do not be drunk with wine, in which is debauchery, but be filled with the Holy Spirit,

(Ephesians 5:20) 
speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your hearts to the Lord,

(Ephesians 5:21) 
giving thanks always for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to God and the Father:

(Ephesians 5:22) 
Be subject to one another in the fear of Christ.

(Ephesians 5:23) 
Wives, be subject to your husbands, as to the Lord.

(Ephesians 5:24) 
For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ is the head of the Church: He is the Savior of His body.

(Ephesians 5:25) 
But as the Church is subject to Christ, so also let wives be to their husbands in all things.

(Ephesians 5:26) 
Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the Church, and gave Himself up for her,

(Ephesians 5:27) 
that He might sanctify her, cleansing her by the washing of water with the word of life,

(Ephesians 5:28) 
that He might present her to Himself a glorious Church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and without blemish.

(Ephesians 5:29) 
So also husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.

(Ephesians 5:30) 
For no one ever hated his own flesh: but nourishes and cherishes it, as also Christ does the Church:

(Ephesians 5:31) 
because we are members of His body, of His flesh and of His bones.

(Ephesians 5:32) 
“Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh.”

(Ephesians 5:33) 
This is a great mystery, and I mean in Christ and in the Church.

(Ephesians 6:1) 
Children, obey your parents in the Lord; this is right.

(Ephesians 6:2) 
“Honor your father and your mother.” This is the first commandment with a promise:

(Ephesians 6:3) 
“that it may be well with you and that you may live long on the earth.”

(Ephesians 6:4) 
And, you fathers, do not provoke your children to wrath, but bring them up in the discipline and correction of the Lord.

(Ephesians 6:5) 
Slaves, be obedient to those who are your masters according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, in the simplicity of your heart, as to Christ:

(Ephesians 6:6) 
Not serving to the eye, as pleasing men, but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart,

(Ephesians 6:7) 
Serving with good will as to the Lord, and not to men:

(Ephesians 6:8) 
Knowing that whatever good anyone does, this he will receive from the Lord, whether slave or free.

(Ephesians 6:9) 
And, you masters, do the same things to them, remitting threats, knowing that both theirs and yours is the Lord in heaven, and there is no respect of persons with Him.

(Ephesians 6:10) 
For the rest, be strengthened in the Lord and in the power of His might.

(Ephesians 6:11) 
Put on the armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the deceits of the devil.

(Ephesians 6:12) 
For we are not wrestling against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, against the world rulers of this darkness, against the spiritual wickedness in the high places.

(Ephesians 6:13) 
Therefore, take up the armor of God, that you may be able to resist in the evil day and, being perfect in all things, to stand.

(Ephesians 6:14) 
Stand, therefore, having your loins girt about with truth and having put on the breastplate of justice,

(Ephesians 6:15) 
And having your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace:

(Ephesians 6:16) 
In all things, taking up the shield of faith, with which you may be able to extinguish all the fiery darts of the wicked one.

(Ephesians 6:17) 
And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit (which is the word of God).

(Ephesians 6:18) 
By every prayer and supplication, praying at all times in the spirit, and in this watching with all insistence and supplication for all the saints:

(Ephesians 6:19) 
And for me, that speech may be given to me, in the opening of my mouth, with confidence to make known the mystery of the gospel:

(Ephesians 6:20) 
For which I am an ambassador in a chain, so that I may dare to speak it, as I ought to speak.

(Ephesians 6:21) 
But that you also may know the things concerning me, and what I am doing, Tychicus, the most beloved brother and a faithful minister in the Lord, will make all things known to you:

(Ephesians 6:22) 
Whom I have sent to you for this very thing, that you may know the things concerning us, and that he may comfort your hearts.

(Ephesians 6:23) 
Peace to the brethren, and love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

(Ephesians 6:24) 
Grace with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ in incorruption. Amen.