(Philippians 1:1) 
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, send greetings to all the holy ones in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, including their overseers and those who serve them.

(Philippians 1:2) 
May grace and peace be granted to you by God our Father and by the Lord Jesus Christ.

(Philippians 1:3) 
I thank my God whenever I think of you,

(Philippians 1:4) 
always in my every prayer, I pray with joy for all of you,

(Philippians 1:5) 
because you have shared the Gospel from the very first day until now:

(Philippians 1:6) 
I am sure of this: God, who has begun this good work in you, will carry it on to completion until the day of Jesus Christ.

(Philippians 1:7) 
It is right that I should feel this way about all of you, because I hold you in my heart. You share in God’s grace with me, and you are with me in my imprisonment, and in the defense and confirmation of the Gospel.

(Philippians 1:8) 
God is my witness that I long for all of you with the deep love of Jesus Christ.

(Philippians 1:9) 
And I pray that your love may overflow more and more, with knowledge and with all insight,

(Philippians 1:10) 
so that you may discern what is best, and be pure and blameless for the day of Christ,

(Philippians 1:11) 
filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.

(Philippians 1:12) 
Now I want you to know, brothers and sisters, that what has happened to me has actually served to advance the Gospel,

(Philippians 1:13) 
so that my imprisonment for Christ has become well known throughout the whole praetorian guard and to everyone else.

(Philippians 1:14) 
And because of my imprisonment, most of the brothers and sisters have been encouraged to speak the word of God more courageously and fearlessly.

(Philippians 1:15) 
It is true that some preach Christ out of envy and rivalry, but others out of goodwill.

(Philippians 1:16) 
The latter do so in love, knowing that I am put here for the defense of the Gospel.

(Philippians 1:17) 
The former preach Christ out of selfish ambition, not sincerely, supposing that they can add to my distress in my chains.

(Philippians 1:18) 
So what? The important thing is that in every way, whether from wrong motives or true, Christ is preached. And because of this I rejoice. Yes, and I will continue to rejoice,

(Philippians 1:19) 
for I know that through your prayers and God’s provision of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, what has happened to me will turn out for my deliverance.

(Philippians 1:20) 
I eagerly expect and hope that I will in no way be ashamed, but will have sufficient courage so that now as always Christ will be exalted in my body, whether by life or by death.

(Philippians 1:21) 
For to me, to live is Christ and to die is gain.

(Philippians 1:22) 
If I am to go on living in the body, this will mean fruitful labor for me. Yet what shall I choose? I do not know!

(Philippians 1:23) 
I am torn between the two: I desire to depart and be with Christ, which is better by far;

(Philippians 1:24) 
but it is more necessary for you that I remain in the body.

(Philippians 1:25) 
Convinced of this, I know that I will remain and will continue with all of you for your progress and joy in the faith,

(Philippians 1:26) 
so that through my being with you again, your boasting in Christ Jesus will abound on account of me.

(Philippians 1:27) 
Whatever happens, conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the Gospel of Christ. Then, whether I come and see you or only hear about you in my absence, I will know that you stand firm in one spirit, striving together as one for the faith of the Gospel,

(Philippians 1:28) 
without being frightened in any way by those who oppose you. This is a sign to them that they will be lost, but that you will be saved—and that by God.

(Philippians 1:29) 
For it has been granted to you on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for him,

(Philippians 1:30) 
since you are going through the same struggle you saw I had, and now hear that I still have.

(Philippians 2:1) 
If therefore there is any consolation in the Son, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and compassion:

(Philippians 2:2) 
Then complete my joy, by having the same understanding, having the same charity, being of one mind, thinking the same thing:

(Philippians 2:3) 
Let nothing be done through contention, nor by empty glory: but in humility of mind, let each esteem others better than themselves:

(Philippians 2:4) 
Not considering each the things that are his own, but the things that are of others.

(Philippians 2:5) 
For let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:

(Philippians 2:6) 
Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal to God:

(Philippians 2:7) 
But emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men, and in habit found as a man.

(Philippians 2:8) 
He humbled himself, becoming obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.

(Philippians 2:9) 
For which cause also God hath exalted him, and hath given him a name which is above all names:

(Philippians 2:10) 
That in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those that are in heaven, on earth, and under the earth:

(Philippians 2:11) 
And that every tongue should confess that the Lord Jesus Christ is in the glory of God the Father.

(Philippians 2:12) 
Wherefore, my dearly beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but much more now in my absence, with fear and trembling work out your salvation.

(Philippians 2:13) 
For it is God who worketh in you both to will and to accomplish, according to his good will.

(Philippians 2:14) 
Do all things without murmurings and hesitations:

(Philippians 2:15) 
That you may be blameless and harmless, children of God without reproach, in the midst of a depraved and perverse nation: among whom you shine as lights in the world,

(Philippians 2:16) 
Holding fast the word of life: that I may glory in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, nor labored in vain.

(Philippians 2:17) 
But if I am to be sacrificed upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice, and congratulate with you all.

(Philippians 2:18) 
And for the same things do you also rejoice, and congratulate with me.

(Philippians 2:19) 
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly, that I also may be of good comfort, when I know the things concerning you.

(Philippians 2:20) 
For I have no one so of one mind, who with sincere care for you, will care about the things that are of Jesus Christ.

(Philippians 2:21) 
For all seek the things that are their own, not the things that are of Jesus Christ.

(Philippians 2:22) 
But know ye the proof of him, that as a son with the father, he hath served with me in the gospel.

(Philippians 2:23) 
Him therefore I hope to send immediately, as soon as I shall see what shall be about me.

(Philippians 2:24) 
And I trust in the Lord that I myself also shall come to you shortly.

(Philippians 2:25) 
But I have thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow worker and fellow soldier, but your apostle and the minister of my need.

(Philippians 2:26) 
Because indeed he longed for you all, and was sad, for that you had heard that he was sick.

(Philippians 2:27) 
For indeed he was sick, even unto death; but God had mercy on him: and not on him only, but on me also, that I might not have sorrow upon sorrow.

(Philippians 2:28) 
I sent him therefore the more diligently, that, seeing him again, you may rejoice, and I may be the less sorrowful.

(Philippians 2:29) 
Receive him therefore with all joy in the Lord; and such as these hold in honor:

(Philippians 2:30) 
Because for the work of Christ he came to the point of death, delivering his life, that he might fulfill that which was wanting of your service towards me.

(Philippians 3:1) 
Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord! It is no trouble for me to write the same things to you, and it is a safeguard for you.

(Philippians 3:2) 
Watch out for the dogs! Beware of evil workers! Beware of those who mutilate the flesh.

(Philippians 3:3) 
For we are the circumcision, we who worship God in the Spirit, who rejoice in Christ Jesus, and who put no confidence in the flesh

(Philippians 3:4) 
Though I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh also. If anyone else thinks he has reason for confidence in the flesh, I have more:

(Philippians 3:5) 
circumcised on the eighth day, of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; in regard to the law, a Pharisee;

(Philippians 3:6) 
as for zeal, persecuting the Church; as for legal righteousness, faultless.

(Philippians 3:7) 
But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ.

(Philippians 3:8) 
Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ

(Philippians 3:9) 
and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith

(Philippians 3:10) 
that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death,

(Philippians 3:11) 
that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead.

(Philippians 3:12) 
Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect, but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.

(Philippians 3:13) 
Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do: forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead,

(Philippians 3:14) 
I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus.

(Philippians 3:15) 
Let those of us who are mature think this way, and if in anything you think otherwise, God will reveal this also to you.

(Philippians 3:16) 
Only let us hold true to what we have attained.

(Philippians 3:17) 
Brothers, join in imitating me, and keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us.

(Philippians 3:18) 
For many, of whom I have often told you and now tell you even with tears, walk as enemies of the cross of Christ.

(Philippians 3:19) 
Their end is destruction, their god is their belly, and their glory is in their shame, who set their minds on earthly things.

(Philippians 3:20) 
But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,

(Philippians 3:21) 
who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself.

(Philippians 4:1) 
So, my beloved brothers and sisters, whom I love and long to see, you who are my joy and crown, stand firm in the Lord, my dear ones.

(Philippians 4:2) 
I urge Euodia and I plead with Syntyche to agree in the Lord.

(Philippians 4:3) 
And I ask you also, my loyal companion, help these women, for they worked with me in the Gospel, along with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life.

(Philippians 4:4) 
Rejoice in the Lord always; again, I say, rejoice.

(Philippians 4:5) 
Let your gentleness be known to all men. The Lord is near.

(Philippians 4:6) 
Have no anxiety about anything; but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God.

(Philippians 4:7) 
And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.

(Philippians 4:8) 
Finally, brothers and sisters, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things.

(Philippians 4:9) 
The things which you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, these do: and the God of peace will be with you.

(Philippians 4:10) 
I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at last you have revived your concern for me; though you were concerned before, you lacked an opportunity.

(Philippians 4:11) 
Not that I speak in regard to need; for I have learned, in whatever state I am, to be content.

(Philippians 4:12) 
I know how to be brought low, and I know how to abound. In any and all circumstances I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need.

(Philippians 4:13) 
I can do all things through him who strengthens me.

(Philippians 4:14) 
Yet it was kind of you to share in my trouble.

(Philippians 4:15) 
And you Philippians yourselves know that in the beginning of the Gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving except you only.

(Philippians 4:16) 
For even in Thessalonica you sent me help more than once when I was in need.

(Philippians 4:17) 
Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that increases to your credit.

(Philippians 4:18) 
I have received everything in full and have an abundance; I am filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things that you sent, a fragrant offering, a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God.

(Philippians 4:19) 
My God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.

(Philippians 4:20) 
To our God and Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.

(Philippians 4:21) 
Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers and sisters who are with me greet you.

(Philippians 4:22) 
All the saints greet you, especially those of Caesar’s household.

(Philippians 4:23) 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.