(Colossians 1:1) 
Paul, sent on a mission by the will of God, along with our brother Timothy,

(Colossians 1:2) 
to the faithful brothers and sisters in Christ living in Colossae. May grace and peace come to you from God our Father and from our Lord Jesus Christ.

(Colossians 1:3) 
We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you,

(Colossians 1:4) 
because we have heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and your love for all the saints,

(Colossians 1:5) 
which is founded on the hope you have in the universe. You learned about this hope through the message of the Gospel, which is the truth,

(Colossians 1:6) 
the same Gospel that has come to you and is bearing fruit and growing throughout the whole world, just as it has been doing among you since the day you heard it and understood God’s grace in all its truth.

(Colossians 1:7) 
You learned this from Epaphras, our dear fellow servant, who is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf,

(Colossians 1:8) 
and who also told us about your love in the Spirit.

(Colossians 1:9) 
For this reason, since the day we heard about you, we have not stopped praying for you. We continually ask God that you may be filled with the knowledge of His will through all the wisdom and understanding that the Spirit gives,

(Colossians 1:10) 
so that you may live a life worthy of the Lord and please Him in every way, bearing fruit in every good work, growing in the knowledge of God,

(Colossians 1:11) 
being strengthened with all power according to His glorious might so that you may have great endurance and patience,

(Colossians 1:12) 
and giving joyful thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in the light.

(Colossians 1:13) 
For He has rescued us from the dominion of darkness and brought us into the kingdom of the Son He loves,

(Colossians 1:14) 
in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins.

(Colossians 1:15) 
The Son is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation,

(Colossians 1:16) 
For in him all things were created: things in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or powers or rulers or authorities; all things have been created through him and for him.

(Colossians 1:17) 
He is before all things, and in him all things hold together.

(Colossians 1:18) 
And he is the head of the body, the Church; he is the beginning and the firstborn from among the dead, so that in everything he might have the supremacy.

(Colossians 1:19) 
For God was pleased to have all his fullness dwell in him,

(Colossians 1:20) 
and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether things on earth or things in heaven, by making peace through his blood, shed on the cross.

(Colossians 1:21) 
Once you were alienated from God and were enemies in your minds because of your evil behavior.

(Colossians 1:22) 
But now he has reconciled you by Christ’s physical body through death to present you holy in his sight, without blemish and free from accusation.

(Colossians 1:23) 
If you continue in your faith, established and firm, and do not move from the hope held out in the gospel. This is the gospel that you heard and that has been proclaimed to every creature under heaven, and of which I, Paul, have become a servant.

(Colossians 1:24) 
Now I rejoice in what I am suffering for you, and I fill up in my flesh what is still lacking in regard to Christ’s afflictions, for the sake of his body, which is the church,

(Colossians 1:25) 
I have become its servant, according to God’s commission that was given to me for you, to present to you the word of God in its fullness.

(Colossians 1:26) 
This mystery, which has been kept hidden for ages and generations, but is now disclosed to the Lord’s holy people.

(Colossians 1:27) 
To them God has chosen to make known among the Gentiles the glorious riches of this mystery, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory.

(Colossians 1:28) 
We proclaim him, warning and teaching everyone with all wisdom, so that we may present everyone fully mature in Christ.

(Colossians 1:29) 
To this end I strenuously contend with all the energy Christ so powerfully works in me.

(Colossians 2:1) 
I want you to know how much I struggle for you, for those in Laodicea, and for everyone who has never seen my face in person.

(Colossians 2:2) 
I want them to be encouraged and united by love, enriched with a full understanding, and with the knowledge of the mystery of God the Father, and of Christ.

(Colossians 2:3) 
In Christ are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.

(Colossians 2:4) 
I say this so that no one will deceive you with smooth words.

(Colossians 2:5) 
Though I am absent in body, I am with you in spirit. I am glad to see your order and the strength of your faith in Christ.

(Colossians 2:6) 
Therefore, since you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, walk in him.

(Colossians 2:7) 
Be rooted and built up in him, and strengthened in the faith as you were taught, overflowing with thankfulness.

(Colossians 2:8) 
Be careful that no one deceives you with philosophy, empty deceit, the tradition of men, the elemental spirits of the world, and not according to Christ.

(Colossians 2:9) 
For in Christ lives all the fullness of the Godhead bodily.

(Colossians 2:10) 
And you have been filled in him, who is the head of all principality and power.

(Colossians 2:11) 
In him you were also circumcised, but not with a circumcision done by human hands; you were set free from the sinful nature of the body, by the circumcision of Christ.

(Colossians 2:12) 
You were buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the power of God, who raised him from the dead.

(Colossians 2:13) 
And you, who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses,

(Colossians 2:14) 
blotting out the written code of the decrees that was against us, which was contrary to us; he took it out of the way, nailing it to the cross.

(Colossians 2:15) 
He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame, by triumphing over them in him.

(Colossians 2:16) 
Therefore, do not let anyone judge you in respect to food or drink or in respect to a festival, a new moon, or a Sabbath.

(Colossians 2:17) 
These are a shadow of the things to come, but the substance belongs to Christ.

(Colossians 2:18) 
Do not let anyone defraud you of your prize by insisting on self-abasement and the worship of angels, dwelling on things that he has not seen, puffed up without cause by his sensuous mind,

(Colossians 2:19) 
and not holding fast to the head, from whom the whole body, nourished and knit together through its joints and ligaments, grows with a growth that is from God.

(Colossians 2:20) 
If with Christ you died to the elemental spirits of the world, why, as though you were still living in the world, do you submit to regulations—

(Colossians 2:21) 
“Do not handle,” “Do not taste,” “Do not touch”

(Colossians 2:22) 
(which all are destined to perish with use)—according to human precepts and teachings?

(Colossians 2:23) 
These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-imposed piety, humility, and severity to the body, but they are of no value in checking the indulgence of the flesh.

(Colossians 3:1) 
Since you are resurrected with Christ, you should seek the things that are above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God:

(Colossians 3:2) 
You should focus on the things above, not the things of the earth.

(Colossians 3:3) 
For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.

(Colossians 3:4) 
When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with Him in glory.

(Colossians 3:5) 
Therefore, you must put to death the members of your body that are on the earth: sexual immorality, impurity, lust, evil desire, and greed, which is the worship of idols.

(Colossians 3:6) 
Because of these things, the wrath of God is coming upon those who do not believe.

(Colossians 3:7) 
In these things, you too once walked, when you lived among them.

(Colossians 3:8) 
But now, you must rid yourselves of all these things: anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, and foul language from your mouth.

(Colossians 3:9) 
Do not lie to each other, stripping off the old self with its practices,

(Colossians 3:10) 
and putting on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge according to the image of its Creator,

(Colossians 3:11) 
where there is no Gentile or Jew, circumcision or uncircumcision, barbarian or Scythian, slave or free, but Christ is all and in all.

(Colossians 3:12) 
Therefore, as the chosen ones of God, holy and beloved, clothe yourselves with compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience,

(Colossians 3:13) 
bearing with one another and forgiving one another, if anyone has a complaint against another; as the Lord has forgiven you, so also you must forgive.

(Colossians 3:14) 
Above all these things, have love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony.

(Colossians 3:15) 
And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which also you were called in one body; and be thankful.

(Colossians 3:16) 
Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, with thankfulness in your hearts to God.

(Colossians 3:17) 
And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through Him.

(Colossians 3:18) 
Wives, be subject to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord.

(Colossians 3:19) 
Husbands, love your wives and do not be harsh with them.

(Colossians 3:20) 
Children, obey your parents in everything, for this is pleasing to the Lord.

(Colossians 3:21) 
Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, so they do not become discouraged.

(Colossians 3:22) 
Slaves, obey your earthly masters in everything, not only while they are watching, as people-pleasers, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord.

(Colossians 3:23) 
Whatever you do, do it with all your heart, as working for the Lord, not for men,

(Colossians 3:24) 
knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ.

(Colossians 3:25) 
For the wrongdoer will be paid back for his wrongs, and there is no partiality.

(Colossians 4:1) 
Masters, give to your servants what is just and fair, knowing that you also have a Master in the universe.

(Colossians 4:2) 
Be persistent in prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving.

(Colossians 4:3) 
Pray also for us, that God may open to us a door for the word, to speak the mystery of Christ (for which also I am bound),

(Colossians 4:4) 
that I may make it manifest, as I ought to speak.

(Colossians 4:5) 
Walk with wisdom toward those who are outside, redeeming the time.

(Colossians 4:6) 
Let your speech always be in grace, seasoned with salt: so that you may know how you ought to answer each person.

(Colossians 4:7) 
All that concerns me, and what I do, Tychicus, the most dear brother, and faithful minister, and fellow servant in the Lord, will make known to you:

(Colossians 4:8) 
whom I have sent to you for this very thing, that you may know the things concerning us, and that he may comfort your hearts,

(Colossians 4:9) 
with Onesimus, a faithful and most dear brother, who is one of you. They will make known to you all things that are done here.

(Colossians 4:10) 
Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, salutes you; and Mark, the cousin of Barnabas, about whom you have received commands: if he comes to you, receive him:

(Colossians 4:11) 
and Jesus, who is called Justus: who are of the circumcision. These alone are fellow workers for the kingdom of God, who have been a comfort to me.

(Colossians 4:12) 
Epaphras, who is one of you, the servant of Christ Jesus, salutes you, always solicitous for you in prayers, that you may stand perfect and full in all the will of God.

(Colossians 4:13) 
For I bear him witness that he has much labor for you, and for those who are at Laodicea, and for those who are at Hierapolis.

(Colossians 4:14) 
Luke, the most dear physician, salutes you, and Demas.

(Colossians 4:15) 
Salute the brothers who are at Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the church that is in his house.

(Colossians 4:16) 
And when this letter has been read among you, cause that it be read also in the church of the Laodiceans: and that which is [sent] from Laodicea, read that also among yourselves.

(Colossians 4:17) 
And say to Archippus, “Take heed to the ministry which you have received in the Lord, that you fulfill it.”

(Colossians 4:18) 
The greeting by the hand of Paul. Be mindful of my bonds. Grace be with you. Amen.

(1 Thessalonians 1:1) 
From Paul, and Silvanus, and Timothy: to the church of the Thessalonians, who are united to God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ.

(1 Thessalonians 1:2) 
Grace to you, and peace. We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers without ceasing,

(1 Thessalonians 1:3) 
constantly remembering your work of faith and your labor, and the love and patience of the hope of our Lord Jesus Christ, before God our Father:

(1 Thessalonians 1:4) 
Knowing, brethren beloved by God, your election:

(1 Thessalonians 1:5) 
Because our Gospel came to you not only in word, but also in power, and in the Holy Spirit, and in much fullness, just as you know what kind of men we were among you, for your sakes.

(1 Thessalonians 1:6) 
And you became imitators of us and of the Lord, receiving the word with much tribulation, with the joy of the Holy Spirit,

(1 Thessalonians 1:7) 
so that you were made a pattern to all those who believe, in Macedonia and in Achaia.

(1 Thessalonians 1:8) 
For from you has gone forth the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but in every place your faith, which is toward God, has gone forth, so that we need not to speak anything.

(1 Thessalonians 1:9) 
For they themselves relate of us what kind of entrance we had to you: and how you turned to God from idols, to serve the living and true God,

(1 Thessalonians 1:10) 
and to await His Son from the universe—Jesus—whom He raised from the dead, who has delivered us from the wrath to come.

(1 Thessalonians 2:1) 
You know yourselves, brothers, that we didn’t come to you in vain, wasting time or energy:

(1 Thessalonians 2:2) 
But after suffering and enduring insults, as you know, in Philippi, we had the courage given to us by God to preach to you in difficult times.

(1 Thessalonians 2:3) 
For our encouragement did not come from error, nor from uncleanness, nor from trickery:

(1 Thessalonians 2:4) 
but as we were proven worthy by God, that the Gospel be entrusted to us, so do we speak, not as those pleasing men, but God, who knows our hearts.

(1 Thessalonians 2:5) 
For at no time were we in speech with flattery, as you know: nor with an occasion for greed: God is witness.

(1 Thessalonians 2:6) 
Nor seeking glory from men, neither from you, nor from others:

(1 Thessalonians 2:7) 
though we could have been a burden to you, in order to seek the glory of Christ:

(1 Thessalonians 2:8) 
but we became little ones among you, as a mother would nurture her children:

(1 Thessalonians 2:9) 
in this way, we longed for you, and eagerly wished to hand over to you not only the Gospel of God, but also our souls: because you have become very dear to us.

(1 Thessalonians 2:10) 
For you remember, brothers, our labor and toil: for working night and day, so that we might not burden any of you, we preached to you the Gospel of God.

(1 Thessalonians 2:11) 
You are witnesses, and God is too: how holy, just, and blameless we were among you who believed:

(1 Thessalonians 2:12) 
as you know, how we exhorted each of you, as a father does his children,

(1 Thessalonians 2:13) 
assuring, consoling, and testifying to you, that you should walk worthy of God, who has called you to His kingdom and glory.

(1 Thessalonians 2:14) 
For this reason, we also thank God without ceasing: because when you received from us the word of the hearing of God, you received it not as the word of men, but as it truly is the word of God, which works in you who believe.

(1 Thessalonians 2:15) 
For you have become imitators, brothers, of the churches of God which are in Judea in Christ Jesus: because the same things that they suffered were also suffered by you from your own countrymen, as they did from the Jews,

(1 Thessalonians 2:16) 
who also killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets, and persecuted us, and do not please God, and are against all men,

(1 Thessalonians 2:17) 
forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles, so that they may be saved, so that they may always fill up their sins: for the wrath of God has come upon them to the end.

(1 Thessalonians 2:18) 
But we, brothers, being left desolate from you for a time, in appearance, not in heart, we eagerly sought all the more to see your face with great desire.

(1 Thessalonians 2:19) 
Because we wanted to come to you, I, indeed, Paul, once and again: and Satan prevented us.

(1 Thessalonians 2:20) 
For who is our hope, or joy, or the crown of glory? Are you not? Before our Lord Jesus at His coming?

(1 Thessalonians 2:21) 
For you are our glory and joy.

(1 Thessalonians 3:1) 
Because of this, we could not bear to remain alone in Athens.

(1 Thessalonians 3:2) 
So we sent our brother Timothy, a servant of God in the Gospel of Christ, to strengthen you and to exhort you in your faith.

(1 Thessalonians 3:3) 
We sent him so that no one would be shaken by these tribulations. For you yourselves know that we are appointed to this.

(1 Thessalonians 3:4) 
For when we were with you, we told you beforehand that we would suffer tribulation, even as it came to pass, and as you know.

(1 Thessalonians 3:5) 
For this cause, I also, not bearing it any longer, sent to know your faith, lest perhaps the tempter has tempted you and our labor become vain.

(1 Thessalonians 3:6) 
But now, Timothy has come to us from you and brought us good news about your faith and your charity and that you have a good memory of us always, desiring to see us, just as we also want to see you.

(1 Thessalonians 3:7) 
Therefore, brothers, we have been comforted about you in all our necessity and tribulation, through your faith.

(1 Thessalonians 3:8) 
Because now we live, if you stand firm in the Lord.

(1 Thessalonians 3:9) 
For what thanksgiving can we render to God for you, for all the joy wherewith we rejoice for your sakes before God,

(1 Thessalonians 3:10) 
night and day praying more abundantly that we may see your face and may accomplish those things that are wanting to your faith?

(1 Thessalonians 3:11) 
Now God Himself and our Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, direct our way unto you.

(1 Thessalonians 3:12) 
And may the Lord make you increase and abound in love towards one another and towards all men, even as we do towards you.

(1 Thessalonians 3:13) 
So that he may establish your hearts without blame, in holiness before God and our Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints.

(1 Thessalonians 4:1) 
And now, brothers, we beg you and beseech you in the Lord Jesus Christ, and it is our earnest desire that you continue living the holy life that we have taught you, the life that is pleasing to God, and that you do it even more and more.

(1 Thessalonians 4:2) 
For you know very well what instructions we gave you through the Lord Jesus.

(1 Thessalonians 4:3) 
For this is the will of God, your sanctification: that you stay away from all sexual sin,

(1 Thessalonians 4:4) 
that each of you knows how to control his own body in holiness and honor,

(1 Thessalonians 4:5) 
and not in the lust of passion, as the Gentiles who do not know God do:

(1 Thessalonians 4:6) 
that no one transgress and wrong his brother in this matter. For the Lord is the avenger of all these things, as we have told you and testified before.

(1 Thessalonians 4:7) 
For God has not called us to impurity, but to holiness.

(1 Thessalonians 4:8) 
Therefore, he who rejects this, rejects not man, but God, who has also given His Holy Spirit to you.

(1 Thessalonians 4:9) 
Now concerning fraternal love, we do not need to write to you. For you yourselves have been taught by God to love one another.

(1 Thessalonians 4:10) 
For indeed you do this toward all the brothers who are in all of Macedonia. But we urge you, brothers, to increase more and more,

(1 Thessalonians 4:11) 
and to strive to be at peace, and to mind your own business, and to work with your own hands, as we have commanded you,

(1 Thessalonians 4:12) 
so that you may walk honestly toward those who are outside, and that you may not lack anything.

(1 Thessalonians 4:13) 
But we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, concerning those who have fallen asleep, so that you do not grieve as the others do who have no hope.

(1 Thessalonians 4:14) 
For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so God will bring with Him those who have fallen asleep through Jesus.

(1 Thessalonians 4:15) 
For this we tell you by the word of the Lord: that we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord will not precede those who have fallen asleep.

(1 Thessalonians 4:16) 
For the Lord Himself, with a command, with the voice of the archangel and with the trumpet of God, will descend from the sky: and the dead who are in Christ will rise first.

(1 Thessalonians 4:17) 
Then we who are alive and remain will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet Christ in the air: and so we will always be with the Lord.

(1 Thessalonians 4:18) 
Therefore, comfort one another with these words.

(1 Thessalonians 5:1) 
Now concerning the times and moments, brothers and sisters, there is no need to write to you about it.

(1 Thessalonians 5:2) 
For you yourselves know perfectly well that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night.

(1 Thessalonians 5:3) 
When they say “Peace and safety,” then sudden destruction will come upon them, as labor pains come upon a woman giving birth, and they will not escape.

(1 Thessalonians 5:4) 
But you, brothers and sisters, are not in darkness, that this day should overtake you as a thief.

(1 Thessalonians 5:5) 
For you are all children of light and children of the day; we are not of the night nor of darkness.

(1 Thessalonians 5:6) 
Therefore let us not sleep, as the rest do, but let us keep awake and be sober.

(1 Thessalonians 5:7) 
For those who sleep, sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night.

(1 Thessalonians 5:8) 
But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and the helmet of the hope of salvation.

(1 Thessalonians 5:9) 
For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,

(1 Thessalonians 5:10) 
who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, we may live together with him.

(1 Thessalonians 5:11) 
Therefore encourage one another and build one another up, as indeed you are doing.

(1 Thessalonians 5:12) 
We ask you, brothers and sisters, to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you,

(1 Thessalonians 5:13) 
and to esteem them very highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves.

(1 Thessalonians 5:14) 
And we exhort you, brothers and sisters, admonish the idle, encourage the fainthearted, help the weak, be patient with all.

(1 Thessalonians 5:15) 
See that no one repays evil for evil to anyone, but always pursue what is good, both for yourselves and for all.

(1 Thessalonians 5:16) 
Rejoice always.

(1 Thessalonians 5:17) 
Pray without ceasing.

(1 Thessalonians 5:18) 
In everything give thanks; for this is God’s will for you in Christ Jesus.

(1 Thessalonians 5:19) 
Do not quench the Spirit.

(1 Thessalonians 5:20) 
Do not despise prophecies,

(1 Thessalonians 5:21) 
but test everything; hold fast to what is good.

(1 Thessalonians 5:22) 
Abstain from every form of evil.

(1 Thessalonians 5:23) 
May the God of peace himself sanctify you completely; and may your spirit and soul and body be kept sound and blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.

(1 Thessalonians 5:24) 
He who calls you is faithful; he will surely do it.

(1 Thessalonians 5:25) 
Brothers and sisters, pray for us.

(1 Thessalonians 5:26) 
Greet all the brothers and sisters with a holy kiss.

(1 Thessalonians 5:27) 
I adjure you by the Lord to have this letter read to all the holy brothers and sisters.

(1 Thessalonians 5:28) 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.

(2 Thessalonians 1:1) 
From Paul, Silas, and Timothy, to the Church of the Thessalonians, who are in God our Father, and in Our Lord Jesus Christ:

(2 Thessalonians 1:2) 
May grace and peace be given to you from God our Father, and from Our Lord Jesus Christ.

(2 Thessalonians 1:3) 
We ought to always give thanks to God for you, brothers, as is proper, because your faith increases so much, and the charity of each one of you abounds toward one another:

(2 Thessalonians 1:4) 
so that we ourselves may glory in you in the churches of God, because of your patience and faith in all your persecutions, and in the tribulations that you endure,

(2 Thessalonians 1:5) 
This is proof of God’s just judgment, that you may be worthy of the Kingdom of God, for which you also suffer:

(2 Thessalonians 1:6) 
Because it is just for God to repay with tribulation those who afflict you:

(2 Thessalonians 1:7) 
and to give rest to you who are afflicted, along with us, at the revelation of Our Lord Jesus Christ with the angels of His power,

(2 Thessalonians 1:8) 
in flaming fire, taking vengeance on those who do not know God, and who do not obey the Gospel of Our Lord Jesus Christ:

(2 Thessalonians 1:9) 
These people will pay the penalty of eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord, and from the glory of His power:

(2 Thessalonians 1:10) 
On that day, He will come to be glorified among His holy ones, and to be admired among all who have believed (because our testimony among you was believed).

(2 Thessalonians 1:11) 
Therefore, we always pray for you: that God may deem you worthy of His calling, and may fulfill every desire of goodness, and the work of faith in power,

(2 Thessalonians 1:12) 
so that the name of Our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you, and you in Him, according to the grace of our God, and Our Lord Jesus Christ.

(2 Thessalonians 2:1) 
Now, brothers, we beg you about the second coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and our gathering to Him.

(2 Thessalonians 2:2) 
Don't let anyone easily shake your faith, nor should you be frightened, whether by a spirit, or by a word, or by a letter as if sent by us, that the Day of the Lord is present.

(2 Thessalonians 2:3) 
Let no one deceive you in any way. Because the Day of the Lord will not come unless the apostasy has come first, and the man of sin, the son of perdition, has been revealed,

(2 Thessalonians 2:4) 
Who opposes and elevates himself above all that is called God, or that is worshiped. This man will sit in the temple of God, showing himself as if he is God.

(2 Thessalonians 2:5) 
Don't you remember that I told you these things when I was still with you?

(2 Thessalonians 2:6) 
Now you know what restrains him, so that he may be revealed in his time.

(2 Thessalonians 2:7) 
For the mystery of iniquity is already at work, only until he who now restrains is taken out of the way.

(2 Thessalonians 2:8) 
And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will kill with the breath of His mouth, and will destroy with the brightness of His coming.

(2 Thessalonians 2:9) 
This man's coming is according to the working of Satan, in all power, and signs, and wonders of lies,

(2 Thessalonians 2:10) 
and in all the deceits of wickedness for those who perish, because they didn't accept the love of the truth, that they might be saved.

(2 Thessalonians 2:11) 
And therefore God will send them the operation of error, that they should believe a lie:

(2 Thessalonians 2:12) 
so that all may be judged who did not believe the truth, but who consented to iniquity.

(2 Thessalonians 2:13) 
But we ought to give thanks to God always for you, brothers beloved by God, because God chose you as the first fruits for salvation, in the sanctification of the Spirit, and the faith of truth:

(2 Thessalonians 2:14) 
to which He called you through our Gospel, so that you might obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.

(2 Thessalonians 2:15) 
So then, brothers, stand firm and hold to the traditions that you were taught, either by word of mouth, or by our letter.

(2 Thessalonians 2:16) 
Now may our Lord Jesus Christ Himself, and God and our Father, who loved us, and gave everlasting consolation and good hope through grace,

(2 Thessalonians 2:17) 
exhort your hearts, and confirm them in every good work and word.

(2 Thessalonians 3:1) 
Finally, brothers, pray for us, that the word of the Lord spreads and is glorified, just as it is with you.

(2 Thessalonians 3:2) 
And pray that we might be delivered from unreasonable and evil men. Because not everyone has faith.

(2 Thessalonians 3:3) 
But God is faithful, and He will strengthen you and guard you from evil.

(2 Thessalonians 3:4) 
Moreover, we trust in the Lord concerning you, that you both do the things that we command you, and will do them.

(2 Thessalonians 3:5) 
And may the Lord direct your hearts in the love of God and in the patience of Christ.

(2 Thessalonians 3:6) 
Now we command you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you withdraw from every brother who walks disorderly, and not according to the tradition which they received from us.

(2 Thessalonians 3:7) 
For you yourselves know how it is necessary to imitate us: because we did not act disorderly among you,

(2 Thessalonians 3:8) 
nor did we eat anyone's bread for free, but we worked in labor and toil night and day, so that we would not burden any of you.

(2 Thessalonians 3:9) 
Not because we did not have the authority, but to give ourselves as a model to you, so that you might imitate us.

(2 Thessalonians 3:10) 
For even when we were with you, we were commanding you this: that if anyone does not want to work, neither let him eat.

(2 Thessalonians 3:11) 
For we hear that some of you are walking disorderly, doing no work, but acting as busybodies.

(2 Thessalonians 3:12) 
Now those of that kind we command and exhort in the Lord Jesus Christ, that working quietly, they eat their own bread.

(2 Thessalonians 3:13) 
But you, brothers, do not grow weary in doing good.

(2 Thessalonians 3:14) 
And if anyone does not obey our word through this letter, note this one, and do not associate with him, so that he may be ashamed.

(2 Thessalonians 3:15) 
And do not consider him an enemy, but admonish him as a brother.

(2 Thessalonians 3:16) 
Now may the Lord of peace Himself give you peace always in every place. The Lord be with all of you.

(2 Thessalonians 3:17) 
The greeting by my own hand, Paul, which is the sign in every letter; I write in this way.

(2 Thessalonians 3:18) 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with all of you. Amen.

(1 Timothy 1:1) 
Paul, an Apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the command of God our Savior, and of Christ Jesus, our hope,

(1 Timothy 1:2) 
To Timothy, a beloved son in the faith. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father, and Christ Jesus, our Lord.

(1 Timothy 1:3) 
As I requested you to stay in Ephesus, on my way to Macedonia, so that you would command certain people not to teach differently,

(1 Timothy 1:4) 
nor to give heed to fables and endless genealogies: which give rise to disputes, rather than to the edification of God, which is in faith.

(1 Timothy 1:5) 
Now the goal of the commandment is charity, from a pure heart, and a good conscience, and faith unfeigned.

(1 Timothy 1:6) 
From these things some, having strayed, are turned aside to vain speech,

(1 Timothy 1:7) 
desiring to be teachers of the law, though they understand neither what they say, nor the things concerning which they make affirmation.

(1 Timothy 1:8) 
But we know that the law is good, if one uses it lawfully:

(1 Timothy 1:9) 
knowing this, that the law is not made for the just man, but for the unjust and disobedient, for the impious and for sinners, for the wicked and defiled, for murderers of fathers, and murderers of mothers,

(1 Timothy 1:10) 
fornicators, those who practice homosexuality, kidnappers, liars, perjurers, and if there is anything else that goes against sound doctrine;

(1 Timothy 1:11) 
according to the Gospel of the glory of the blessed God, which was entrusted to me.

(1 Timothy 1:12) 
And I give thanks to him who has strengthened me, even Christ Jesus our Lord, because he has judged me faithful, putting me into the ministry,

(1 Timothy 1:13) 
who was before a blasphemer, and a persecutor, and contumelious. But I obtained mercy, because I did it ignorantly, in unbelief.

(1 Timothy 1:14) 
And the grace of our Lord abounded with faith and the love that is in Christ Jesus.

(1 Timothy 1:15) 
Faithful is the word, and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief.

(1 Timothy 1:16) 
But for this reason I obtained mercy: that in me first Christ Jesus might show forth all patience, for the example of those who would believe in him unto life everlasting.

(1 Timothy 1:17) 
Now to the King of ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory for ever and ever. Amen.

(1 Timothy 1:18) 
This charge I commit to you, Timothy, my son, in accordance with the prophecies previously made about you, that by them you may wage the good warfare,

(1 Timothy 1:19) 
holding faith and a good conscience, which some, having thrust aside, have suffered shipwreck concerning the faith.

(1 Timothy 1:20) 
Among these are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have delivered to Satan, that they may learn not to blaspheme.

(1 Timothy 2:1) 
I ask, then, that, first of all, that there be prayers of supplication, prayers of petition, and thanksgiving offered for all people:

(1 Timothy 2:2) 
Pray for those in authority, and all those who govern, so that we may live a calm and tranquil life, with all piety and chastity.

(1 Timothy 2:3) 
This is good, and acceptable in the sight of God, our Savior,

(1 Timothy 2:4) 
Who wills all people to be saved, and to come to the knowledge of the truth.

(1 Timothy 2:5) 
For there is only one God, and only one mediator between God and humankind, the man Christ Jesus:

(1 Timothy 2:6) 
Who gave Himself as a redemption for all, as a testimony in his own time:

(1 Timothy 2:7) 
I, Paul, have been placed as a herald, and an apostle—I speak the truth and do not lie—a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth.

(1 Timothy 2:8) 
I want, therefore, men to pray in every place, lifting up holy hands, without anger or quarreling.

(1 Timothy 2:9) 
Likewise, women should adorn themselves in modest apparel, with decency and moderation, not with braided hair, gold, pearls, or costly clothes,

(1 Timothy 2:10) 
but with good works, as befits women who profess godliness.

(1 Timothy 2:11) 
Let a woman learn in silence, with all subjection.

(1 Timothy 2:12) 
I do not permit a woman to teach or to have authority over a man, but to be in silence.

(1 Timothy 2:13) 
For Adam was formed first, and then Eve.

(1 Timothy 2:14) 
And Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived and became a transgressor.

(1 Timothy 2:15) 
But she will be saved through childbirth, if they continue in faith, and love, and holiness, with moderation.

(1 Timothy 3:1) 
This is a true statement: If a man desires to be a bishop, he is reaching for an honorable work.

(1 Timothy 3:2) 
A bishop, therefore, must be above reproach, he must be a one-woman man, sober, prudent, respectable, chaste, hospitable, and able to teach,

(1 Timothy 3:3) 
not a drunkard or a brawler, but gentle, not quarrelsome, not greedy,

(1 Timothy 3:4) 
one who manages his own household well, with his children in submission with all dignity.

(1 Timothy 3:5) 
(For if a man does not know how to manage his own household, how will he take care of the church of God?)

(1 Timothy 3:6) 
He must not be a recent convert, lest he be puffed up with pride and fall into the devil's judgment.

(1 Timothy 3:7) 
Moreover, he must have a good reputation with those outside the Church, so that he does not fall into disgrace and the devil's snare.

(1 Timothy 3:8) 
Deacons likewise must be dignified, not double-tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy for sordid gain.

(1 Timothy 3:9) 
They must hold the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience.

(1 Timothy 3:10) 
Let these also be tested first; then let them serve as deacons if they prove themselves blameless.

(1 Timothy 3:11) 
Women, in like manner, must be dignified, not slanderers, but sober and trustworthy in everything.

(1 Timothy 3:12) 
Let deacons be the husbands of one wife, and let them manage their children and their own households well.

(1 Timothy 3:13) 
For those who serve well gain a good standing for themselves and also great confidence in the faith which is in Christ Jesus.

(1 Timothy 3:14) 
I am writing these things to you, hoping to come to you soon,

(1 Timothy 3:15) 
but in case I am delayed, so that you may know how one ought to behave in the household of God, which is the church of the living God, a pillar and buttress of the truth.

(1 Timothy 3:16) 
And without doubt, the mystery of godliness is great: He was revealed in the flesh, vindicated in the Spirit, seen by angels, proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up in glory.

(1 Timothy 4:1) 
The Spirit clearly says that in the final days, some will abandon the faith, listening to the spirits of error and the teachings of demons.

(1 Timothy 4:2) 
They will be deceivers, and their consciences will be seared.

(1 Timothy 4:3) 
They will forbid marriage and tell people to abstain from certain foods. God created these foods to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth.

(1 Timothy 4:4) 
Everything God made is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving:

(1 Timothy 4:5) 
It is made holy by the word of God and prayer.

(1 Timothy 4:6) 
By teaching these things to the brothers, you will be a good servant of Jesus Christ, nourished by the words of the faith and the good teaching that you have followed.

(1 Timothy 4:7) 
But reject profane and old wives' tales, and train yourself to be a man of faith.

(1 Timothy 4:8) 
Physical training has some value, but faith is valuable in every way. It promises life now and in the future.

(1 Timothy 4:9) 
This is a faithful saying, worthy of all acceptance.

(1 Timothy 4:10) 
We work hard and suffer insults for this, because we have put our hope in the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe.

(1 Timothy 4:11) 
Command and teach these things.

(1 Timothy 4:12) 
Let no one look down on your youth. Instead, be an example for the believers in your speech, in your conduct, in love, in faith, and in purity.

(1 Timothy 4:13) 
Until I come, focus on reading the Scriptures, exhorting others, and teaching.

(1 Timothy 4:14) 
Do not neglect the spiritual gift that is in you, which was given to you through prophecy when the elders laid their hands on you.

(1 Timothy 4:15) 
Meditate on these things; be committed to them, so that your progress may be evident to all.

(1 Timothy 4:16) 
Pay close attention to yourself and to your teaching. Persevere in them, for by doing so you will save both yourself and those who listen to you.

(1 Timothy 5:1) 
Never scold an older man, but instead implore him as if he were your own father. Treat younger men as brothers.

(1 Timothy 5:2) 
Treat older women as mothers. Treat younger women as sisters—in all purity.

(1 Timothy 5:3) 
Give honor to widows who are truly widows.

(1 Timothy 5:4) 
If any widow has children or grandchildren, let them learn first to manage their own household and to repay their parents and grandparents; for this is acceptable before God.

(1 Timothy 5:5) 
Now, she who is truly a widow, and desolate, hopes in God, and persists in prayers night and day.

(1 Timothy 5:6) 
But she who is self-indulgent is dead while she lives.

(1 Timothy 5:7) 
Give these instructions, so that they may be blameless.

(1 Timothy 5:8) 
But if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially for those of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.

(1 Timothy 5:9) 
Let a widow be chosen if she is not less than sixty years old, the wife of one husband,

(1 Timothy 5:10) 
having a testimony of good works: if she has brought up children, if she has shown hospitality, if she has washed the saints' feet, if she has relieved the afflicted, if she has diligently followed every good work.

(1 Timothy 5:11) 
But refuse younger widows. For when they have grown luxurious against Christ, they want to marry,

(1 Timothy 5:12) 
having condemnation, because they have set aside their first faith.

(1 Timothy 5:13) 
At the same time, they also learn to be idle, going about from house to house. Not only idle, but also gossips and busybodies, talking about things which they ought not.

(1 Timothy 5:14) 
Therefore, I want younger women to marry, bear children, manage their households, and give the adversary no opportunity for reproach.

(1 Timothy 5:15) 
For some have already turned aside after Satan.

(1 Timothy 5:16) 
If any believing man or woman has widows, let them provide for them, and let not the Church be burdened, so that it may suffice for those who are truly widows.

(1 Timothy 5:17) 
Let the presbyters who rule well be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in the word and in doctrine.

(1 Timothy 5:18) 
For the Scripture says: “You shall not muzzle an ox while it is treading out the grain,” and, “The laborer is worthy of his wages.”

(1 Timothy 5:19) 
Do not receive an accusation against a presbyter, except under two or three witnesses.

(1 Timothy 5:20) 
Those who sin, rebuke in the presence of all, that the rest also may fear.

(1 Timothy 5:21) 
I solemnly charge you in the sight of God and Christ Jesus and the elect angels, that you observe these things without prejudice, doing nothing with partiality.

(1 Timothy 5:22) 
Lay hands on no one hastily, nor share in the sins of others. Keep yourself chaste.

(1 Timothy 5:23) 
No longer drink only water, but use a little wine for the sake of your stomach, and your frequent infirmities.

(1 Timothy 5:24) 
The sins of some men are evident, preceding them to judgment, while the sins of others follow them.

(1 Timothy 5:25) 
Likewise, the good works are evident, and those that are otherwise cannot be hidden.

(1 Timothy 6:1) 
Those who are slaves must consider their masters worthy of all honor. This is to prevent the name of God and His teaching from being dishonored.

(1 Timothy 6:2) 
Those who have faithful masters shouldn't despise them because they are brothers. Instead, they should serve even more diligently, because those masters are faithful and beloved and share in the benefit of Christ. Teach these things, and urge them upon others.

(1 Timothy 6:3) 
If anyone teaches otherwise and does not adhere to the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ and to the teaching that accords with true devotion,

(1 Timothy 6:4) 
he is conceited and knows nothing, but is obsessed with disputes and quarrels about words. These disputes produce envy, contentions, blasphemies, evil suspicions,

(1 Timothy 6:5) 
and the wrangling of people who are corrupted in mind and deprived of the truth, imagining that godliness is a means of gain. Stay away from such people.

(1 Timothy 6:6) 
But godliness with contentment is great gain.

(1 Timothy 6:7) 
For we brought nothing into this world, and we cannot take anything out of it.

(1 Timothy 6:8) 
But if we have food and clothing, with these things we should be content.

(1 Timothy 6:9) 
Those who want to be rich fall into temptation, a snare, and many foolish and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction.

(1 Timothy 6:10) 
For the love of money is the root of all evils, which some, yearning for, have gone astray from the faith and pierced themselves with many sorrows.

(1 Timothy 6:11) 
But you, man of God, flee from these things and pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, perseverance, and gentleness.

(1 Timothy 6:12) 
Fight the good fight of faith; take hold of eternal life, to which you were called and made the good confession in the presence of many witnesses.

(1 Timothy 6:13) 
I charge you in the presence of God, who gives life to all things, and of Christ Jesus, who bore witness to the good confession before Pontius Pilate,

(1 Timothy 6:14) 
to keep the commandment without stain or reproach until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ,

(1 Timothy 6:15) 
which He will manifest at the proper time, He who is the blessed and only Sovereign, the King of kings and Lord of lords,

(1 Timothy 6:16) 
who alone possesses immortality and dwells in unapproachable light, whom no one has seen or can see, to whom be honor and eternal dominion. Amen.

(1 Timothy 6:17) 
Instruct those who are rich in this present world not to be conceited or to fix their hope on the uncertainty of riches, but on God, who richly supplies us with all things to enjoy.

(1 Timothy 6:18) 
Instruct them to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share,

(1 Timothy 6:19) 
storing up for themselves the treasure of a good foundation for the future, so that they may take hold of that which is life indeed.

(1 Timothy 6:20) 
O Timothy, guard what has been entrusted to you, avoiding worldly and empty chatter and the opposing arguments of what is falsely called knowledge.

(1 Timothy 6:21) 
By professing such knowledge, some have gone astray from the faith. Grace be with you. Amen.

(2 Timothy 1:1) 
Paul, an Apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, according to the promise of eternal life, which is in Christ Jesus,

(2 Timothy 1:2) 
To Timothy, my dearest son: grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father, and Christ Jesus our Lord.

(2 Timothy 1:3) 
I give thanks to God, whom I serve with a clear conscience, as my ancestors did. I remember you constantly in my prayers night and day,

(2 Timothy 1:4) 
longing to see you, remembering your tears, so that I may be filled with joy,

(2 Timothy 1:5) 
I am reminded of your sincere faith, which first lived in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice, and I am sure that it lives in you as well.

(2 Timothy 1:6) 
For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God, which is in you through the laying on of my hands.

(2 Timothy 1:7) 
For God gave us not a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of self-control.

(2 Timothy 1:8) 
So do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, nor of me His prisoner, but share in suffering for the Gospel according to the power of God,

(2 Timothy 1:9) 
who saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because of our works but because of His own purpose and grace, which He gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began,

(2 Timothy 1:10) 
and which now has been revealed through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the Gospel,

(2 Timothy 1:11) 
for which I was appointed a preacher and an apostle and a teacher of the Gentiles.

(2 Timothy 1:12) 
That is why I suffer as I do. But I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and I am convinced that He is able to guard what I have entrusted to Him until that day.

(2 Timothy 1:13) 
Hold fast to the pattern of sound words which you have heard from me, in the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus.

(2 Timothy 1:14) 
Guard the good deposit through the Holy Spirit who dwells within us.

(2 Timothy 1:15) 
You are aware that all who are in Asia turned away from me, among whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes.

(2 Timothy 1:16) 
May the Lord grant mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, for he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chains,

(2 Timothy 1:17) 
but when he arrived in Rome, he searched for me even more eagerly until he found me.

(2 Timothy 1:18) 
May the Lord grant him to find mercy from the Lord on that day! And you know very well how many ways he served me in Ephesus.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:1) 
Therefore, my son, strengthen yourself by relying on the grace that is only found in Jesus Christ.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:2) 
The truths you have heard from me, which were confirmed by many witnesses, entrust these teachings to faithful and trustworthy men who will also be capable of teaching these same truths to others.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:3) 
Work hard and endure difficulty, just like a good soldier of Christ Jesus must.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:4) 
No one who is serving as a soldier allows himself to be entangled in worldly affairs, because his main goal is to please the one who enlisted him.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:5) 
Similarly, if someone competes in an athletic contest, he does not receive the victor's crown unless he competes according to the established rules.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:6) 
The hardworking farmer is the one who should be the first to receive a share of the harvest.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:7) 
Consider carefully what I am saying, because the Lord will grant you understanding in all these matters.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:8) 
Always remember that Jesus Christ Our Lord, a descendant of David, was raised from the dead. This is the central truth of the Gospel I preach.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:9) 
Because of this Gospel, I suffer hardship and am even imprisoned, as if I were a criminal. But the Word of God, which is Jesus Christ and His teachings, cannot be imprisoned.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:10) 
Because of this, I endure all these things for the sake of God's elect, so that they, too, may obtain the eternal salvation that is found in Jesus Christ, along with the glory of heaven.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:11) 
This is a trustworthy saying: If we have died with Him through baptism and penance, we will also live with Him in eternal life.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:12) 
If we persevere in suffering for Him, we will also reign with Him. But if we deny Him, He will also deny us on the day of judgment.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:13) 
Even if we are faithless, He remains faithful to His promises, for He cannot deny His own divine nature.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:14) 
Remind everyone of these truths, solemnly testifying before the Lord. Warn them not to engage in useless arguments about words, for such debates are good for nothing except leading those who listen to spiritual ruin.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:15) 
Strive diligently to present yourself to God as a worker who is approved and has no need to be ashamed, because you are accurately handling the Word of Truth.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:16) 
However, avoid profane and empty talk and innovative theories, for these only lead people further into ungodliness.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:17) 
Their teachings will spread like gangrene, and among these false teachers are Hymenæus and Philetus.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:18) 
These men have deviated from the truth by claiming that the resurrection has already taken place, and in doing so, they have undermined the faith of certain individuals.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:19) 
Nevertheless, the unshakeable foundation of God stands firm, sealed with this double inscription: 'The Lord knows those who are His,' and 'Everyone who invokes the name of the Lord must turn away from wickedness.'

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:20) 
In a large household, there are not only vessels made of gold and silver, but also those made of wood and clay. Some of these are used for honorable purposes, while others are for common or dishonorable use.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:21) 
Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from such false teachings and corrupt practices, he will become a vessel set apart for honorable use, sanctified, useful to the Lord, and ready for every good work.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:22) 
Flee from youthful desires, and instead, earnestly pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, doing so with all those who call upon the Lord from a pure heart.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:23) 
But avoid foolish and ignorant disputes, knowing full well that they only lead to quarrels.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:24) 
A servant of the Lord must not quarrel; instead, he must be gentle towards everyone, capable of teaching, and patient when wronged.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:25) 
He must humbly correct those who oppose the truth, in the hope that God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to an accurate knowledge of the truth.

(2 Timothy 2:2 Timothy 2:26) 
In this way, they might escape from the devil’s snare, having been captured by him to do his will.

(2 Timothy 3:1) 
But understand this truth: in the final days of history, perilous times will be upon us.

(2 Timothy 3:2) 
For at that time, people will be consumed with love for themselves, obsessed with money, filled with pride and arrogance, blasphemers, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful for blessings, and entirely unholy.

(2 Timothy 3:3) 
They will lack natural affection, be unforgiving, eager to accuse falsely, without self-control, brutal, and without any love for what is good.

(2 Timothy 3:4) 
They will be betrayers, recklessly defiant, puffed up with self-importance, and will love worldly pleasures more than they love God.

(2 Timothy 3:5) 
They will maintain an outward appearance of piety, but they will deny the true power and virtue of it in their lives. You must turn away from such people.

(2 Timothy 3:6) 
For among these sorts of people are those who slyly infiltrate private homes, leading astray impressionable women who are burdened by their sins and easily swayed by various worldly desires.

(2 Timothy 3:7) 
These women are always learning, yet they never come to a full and certain knowledge of the truth.

(2 Timothy 3:8) 
Just as Jannes and Jambres resisted Moses with their magic, so do these false teachers resist the divine truth. They are men with corrupted minds, whose faith has been rejected and found wanting.

(2 Timothy 3:9) 
But they will not make any further progress, because their foolishness will become obvious to everyone, just as the foolishness of Jannes and Jambres was made manifest.

(2 Timothy 3:10) 
But you, Timothy, have thoroughly observed and followed my teaching, my manner of life, my true purpose, my faith, my patience with others, my love for all, and my perseverance through suffering.

(2 Timothy 3:11) 
You have also seen my persecutions and sufferings—what I went through in Antioch, Iconium, and Lystra. You know what intense persecutions I endured, yet out of all of them, the Lord truly delivered me.

(2 Timothy 3:12) 
In fact, everyone who truly desires to live a life of piety united with Christ Jesus will suffer persecution.

(2 Timothy 3:13) 
But wicked people and deceivers will only continue to grow worse, always going astray themselves and leading others into error.

(2 Timothy 3:14) 
But you, Timothy, must continue steadfastly in the truths you have learned and which have been entrusted to you, knowing the trustworthy teachers from whom you received them.

(2 Timothy 3:15) 
And know that from your very childhood, you have been familiar with the sacred Scriptures, which possess the power to instruct you unto salvation, through the active faith that you have in Christ Jesus.

(2 Timothy 3:16) 
All of Sacred Scripture is inspired by God's own breath; therefore, it is profitable for teaching sound doctrine, for convicting the conscience, for correcting sinful behavior, and for training in all righteousness.

(2 Timothy 3:17) 
This is so that the man consecrated to God may be fully complete and perfectly equipped for every good work.

(2 Timothy 4:1) 
I solemnly charge you before God the Father, and Christ Jesus, who will judge both the living and the dead by His Second Coming and His Eternal Reign.

(2 Timothy 4:2) 
Preach the true word of God. Be ready and urgent in season and out of season. Correct those who err, entreat the wavering, and rebuke the obstinate, doing all of this with great patience and careful teaching.

(2 Timothy 4:3) 
For there will come a time when people will no longer tolerate sound doctrine. Instead, they will gather teachers for themselves who cater to their own desires, because they have itching ears, desiring only what they want to hear.

(2 Timothy 4:4) 
They will turn away from truly hearing the truth, and will instead turn to fables and myths.

(2 Timothy 4:5) 
But you, for your part, stay watchful in all things. Endure hardships. Perform the work of an evangelist, and fulfill your ministry completely.

(2 Timothy 4:6) 
For I am already being poured out like a libation in sacrifice, and the time for my departure from this life is at hand.

(2 Timothy 4:7) 
I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race. I have kept the Catholic Faith.

(2 Timothy 4:8) 
From now on, the crown of justice is reserved for me, which the Lord, the just Judge, will give to me on that Day of Judgment. This crown is not for me alone, but also for all those who love His coming.

(2 Timothy 4:9) 
Make every effort to come to me quickly.

(2 Timothy 4:10) 
For Demas has abandoned me because he loved this present world, and he has gone to Thessalonica. Crescens has gone to Galatia, and Titus to Dalmatia.

(2 Timothy 4:11) 
Luke is the only one with me now. Take Mark with you and bring him along, for he is very useful to me in ministry.

(2 Timothy 4:12) 
However, I have sent Tychicus to Ephesus.

(2 Timothy 4:13) 
When you come, bring the cloak I left with Carpus in Troas. Also bring the books, and especially the parchments.

(2 Timothy 4:14) 
Alexander, the coppersmith, has done me great harm. May the Lord repay him according to his deeds.

(2 Timothy 4:15) 
You also must avoid him, for he strongly opposed our message.

(2 Timothy 4:16) 
At my first defense in court, no one stood with me, but everyone abandoned me. May it not be counted against them.

(2 Timothy 4:17) 
But the Lord stood by me and strengthened me, so that through me the preaching of the Gospel might be fully accomplished, and all the Gentiles might hear it. And I was delivered from the mouth of the lion.

(2 Timothy 4:18) 
And the Lord will deliver me from every evil work and will bring me safely into His heavenly Kingdom. To Him be glory for ever and ever. Amen.

(2 Timothy 4:19) 
Give my greetings to Priscilla and Aquila, and to the household of Onesiphorus.

(2 Timothy 4:20) 
Erastus remained in Corinth, but I left Trophimus sick at Miletus.

(2 Timothy 4:21) 
Make every effort to come before winter. Eubulus greets you, as do Pudens, Linus, Claudia, and all the brethren.

(2 Timothy 4:22) 
May the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. May grace be with you all. Amen.

(Titus 1:1:1) 
Paul, a servant of God, and moreover an Apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith that God chose for His people, and according to the knowledge of the truth that leads to genuine godliness.

(Titus 1:1:2) 
This is all for the hope of eternal life, which God—He who cannot lie—promised even before the ages of time began.

(Titus 1:1:3) 
But at the proper time, God revealed His Word through the preaching that was entrusted to me by the command of God our Savior.

(Titus 1:1:4) 
To Titus, my beloved son in our common faith: May grace and peace be with you from God the Father and from Christ Jesus our Savior.

(Titus 1:1:5) 
For this very purpose I left you behind in Crete: to set right what was still unfinished and to appoint priests—who are spiritual leaders—in every city, just as I instructed you.

(Titus 1:1:6) 
For a priest must be a man without blemish, the husband of one wife, having faithful children who are not accused of wild living or being disobedient.

(Titus 1:1:7) 
For a bishop—as God’s steward—must be without blemish; he must not be arrogant, not quick-tempered, not prone to much wine, not violent, and not greedy for dishonest gain.

(Titus 1:1:8) 
Instead, he must be hospitable, a lover of good, sensible, just, holy, and self-controlled.

(Titus 1:1:9) 
He must hold fast to the faithful teaching that is in line with true doctrine, so that he may be able to encourage others with sound doctrine and also to refute those who contradict it.

(Titus 1:1:10) 
For there are many disobedient people, empty talkers, and deceivers, especially those who insist on circumcision.

(Titus 1:1:11) 
It is necessary to silence them, for they are overthrowing entire households by teaching things they ought not to, all for the sake of dishonest gain.

(Titus 1:1:12) 
One of their own, a prophet from among them, once said: 'Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, and lazy gluttons.'

(Titus 1:1:13) 
This testimony is true. For this reason, you must rebuke them sharply so that they may become sound in the faith.

(Titus 1:1:14) 
They must no longer pay attention to Jewish fables and to the commandments of men who turn away from the truth.

(Titus 1:1:15) 
To those who are pure, everything is pure. But to those who are defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure, for both their mind and conscience are defiled.

(Titus 1:1:16) 
They claim to know God, but by their actions they deny Him, since they are detestable, disobedient, and worthless for every good work.

(Titus 2:Titus 2:1) 
But you, Titus, must teach what is appropriate for sound, holy doctrine.

(Titus 2:Titus 2:2) 
Tell the older men to be sober, prudent, self-controlled, and sound in their faith, in their charity for others, and in their patience.

(Titus 2:Titus 2:3) 
Likewise, tell the older women to conduct themselves in a holy manner. They must not be slanderers, nor should they be enslaved to much wine, but rather they should be good teachers of what is right.

(Titus 2:Titus 2:4) 
This way, they can teach the younger women to be prudent and to love their husbands and their children,

(Titus 2:Titus 2:5) 
to be discreet, chaste, self-controlled, managing their households well, kind, and submissive to their own husbands. This way, the word of God will not be blasphemed or spoken ill of.

(Titus 2:Titus 2:6) 
Likewise, encourage the younger men to be self-controlled in all things.

(Titus 2:Titus 2:7) 
In everything, you yourself, Titus, must set an example of good works for them. In your teaching, show integrity, dignity, and seriousness,

(Titus 2:Titus 2:8) 
and let your message be sound and beyond reproach. This way, any opponent will be ashamed, having nothing evil to say about us Christians.

(Titus 2:Titus 2:9) 
Tell servants to be submissive to their own masters in everything. They should be pleasing to them, not talking back,

(Titus 2:Titus 2:10) 
not stealing, but rather demonstrating complete trustworthiness in everything, so that they may adorn the teaching of God our Savior in all things.

(Titus 2:Titus 2:11) 
For the grace of God, our Savior, has appeared to all mankind,

(Titus 2:Titus 2:12) 
training us, the faithful, to renounce ungodliness and worldly desires. The grace of God teaches us to live soberly, justly, and piously in this present age,

(Titus 2:Titus 2:13) 
while we await the blessed hope: the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ.

(Titus 2:Titus 2:14) 
He gave Himself for us, in order that He might redeem us from all lawlessness and purify for Himself a people who are His very own, eager to do good works.

(Titus 2:Titus 2:15) 
Say these things, and exhort and rebuke with all authority. Let no one disregard you.

(Titus 3:Titus 3:1) 
Remind them to submit to the governmental rulers and the authorities, to always obey what is commanded by law, and to be ready and willing for every good work.

(Titus 3:Titus 3:2) 
Remind them not to speak evil of anyone, not to be quarrelsome but to be gentle, always showing perfect humility and kindness to all people.

(Titus 3:Titus 3:3) 
For at one time, we ourselves were also foolish and without understanding, disobedient to God's law, deceived by sin, enslaved to many kinds of earthly desires and corrupt pleasures, living lives full of malice and envy, hateful to others, and always hating one another.

(Titus 3:Titus 3:4) 
But then, the goodness of God and the loving kindness of our Divine Savior, Our Lord Jesus Christ, was fully revealed to us.

(Titus 3:Titus 3:5) 
He saved us, not because of any righteous deeds that we ourselves had done, but solely according to His own great mercy. He saved us through the life-giving washing of Baptism, which is the renewal and rebirth given by the Holy Spirit.

(Titus 3:Titus 3:6) 
God poured out this same Holy Spirit on us in abundance, through Jesus Christ, Our Lord and Savior.

(Titus 3:Titus 3:7) 
This was so that, having been justified and made righteous by His grace and favor, we might become true heirs to His promises, holding the certain hope of eternal life.

(Titus 3:Titus 3:8) 
This is a most trustworthy saying. And concerning these things, I want you to teach and insist constantly, so that those who truly believe in God may be careful to devote themselves to doing good works. These are indeed good and truly profitable things for all mankind.

(Titus 3:Titus 3:9) 
But avoid foolish questions and pointless debates, and endless genealogies, and quarrels and legal disputes over the Law; for these things are useless and completely worthless.

(Titus 3:Titus 3:10) 
As for a man who promotes heresy and division within the Church, after you have warned him once and then a second time, have nothing more to do with him or his teachings.

(Titus 3:Titus 3:11) 
You should know that a person like this is thoroughly corrupted and is actively sinning, because he stands condemned by his own self-chosen judgment and his rejection of the truth.

(Titus 3:Titus 3:12) 
When I send Artemas or Tychicus to you, make every effort to come to me in Nicopolis as quickly as possible, for I have made plans to spend the winter there.

(Titus 3:Titus 3:13) 
Diligently help Zenas, who is an expert in the Law, and Apollos on their journey, making sure that they lack nothing they might need.

(Titus 3:Titus 3:14) 
And let our Christian people also learn to devote themselves to doing good works, especially for urgent and necessary needs, so that they will not be unproductive or useless in their faith.

(Titus 3:Titus 3:15) 
Everyone who is with me here sends their greetings to you. Greet all those who love us because of our shared faith in Christ. May the grace and divine favor of God be with all of you always. Amen.

(Philemon 1:1) 
Paul, a prisoner for Christ Jesus, and Timothy, our brother in faith, to Philemon, our beloved coworker,

(Philemon 1:2) 
and to Apphia, our sister in faith, to Archippus, our fellow soldier for Christ, and to the Church that meets in your home.

(Philemon 1:3) 
Grace and peace be with you from God our Father, and from our Lord Jesus Christ.

(Philemon 1:4) 
I always thank my God and remember you in my prayers,

(Philemon 1:5) 
because I hear about your love and the faith you have in the Lord Jesus Christ, and how you show it to all the holy people in the Church.

(Philemon 1:6) 
I pray that the sharing of your faith may become effective through your recognition of every good thing that is in you in Christ Jesus.

(Philemon 1:7) 
For I have received great joy and comfort from your love, because you have refreshed the hearts and lives of the holy people, my brother.

(Philemon 1:8) 
Therefore, although I have much confidence in Christ to command you to do what is proper,

(Philemon 1:9) 
I rather appeal to you because of love. I, Paul, am an old man now, and also a prisoner for Christ Jesus.

(Philemon 1:10) 
I appeal to you for my son, Onesimus, whom I have fathered spiritually while I have been in prison.

(Philemon 1:11) 
He was once useless to you, but now he is useful to both you and me.

(Philemon 1:12) 
I am sending him back to you. Please receive him, that is to say, receive my very heart and soul.

(Philemon 1:13) 
I truly wanted to keep him with me, so that he could serve me on your behalf while I am in prison for the Gospel.

(Philemon 1:14) 
But I did not want to do anything without your consent, so that your good deed would not be forced but rather a voluntary act of your free will.

(Philemon 1:15) 
For perhaps he departed from you for a short time for this very reason: that you might have him back forever,

(Philemon 1:16) 
no longer as a slave, but as a beloved brother—far more than a slave. He is especially beloved to me, and how much more so to you, both physically (in the flesh) and spiritually (in the Lord)?

(Philemon 1:17) 
So if you consider me a partner in the faith, welcome him as you would welcome me.

(Philemon 1:18) 
If he has wronged you in any way, or owes you anything, charge it to my account.

(Philemon 1:19) 
I, Paul, am writing this with my own hand: I will repay you. I do not need to mention that you owe me even your very self.

(Philemon 1:20) 
Yes, my brother, let me benefit from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart and soul in Christ.

(Philemon 1:21) 
I write to you confident in your obedience, knowing that you will do even more than what I am asking.

(Philemon 1:22) 
Also, at the same time, prepare a guest room for me, for I hope that through your prayers I will be restored to you.

(Philemon 1:23) 
Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, sends you his greetings.

(Philemon 1:24) 
Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my coworkers, also greet you.

(Philemon 1:25) 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.

(Hebrews 1:1) 
In many and various ways, God spoke in times past to our fathers through the Prophets.

(Hebrews 1:2) 
But in these last days, He has spoken to us through the Son, whom He appointed heir of all things, and through whom He also created the ages and the universe.

(Hebrews 1:3) 
The Son is the radiance of God’s glory, and the exact representation of His very being. He sustains all things by His powerful Word. After He had made purification for our sins, He sat down at the right hand of the Divine Majesty on high.

(Hebrews 1:4) 
He became so much superior to the angels, just as the Name He inherited is more excellent than theirs.

(Hebrews 1:5) 
For to which of the angels did God ever say: 'You are My Son; today I have begotten You'? And again: 'I will be a Father to him, and he will be a Son to Me'?

(Hebrews 1:6) 
And when God again introduces the Firstborn into the world, He says: 'And let all the angels of God worship Him'.

(Hebrews 1:7) 
And concerning the angels, indeed, He says: 'Who makes His angels spirits, and His ministers a flame of fire'.

(Hebrews 1:8) 
But to the Son He says: 'Your throne, O God, is forever and ever; the scepter of righteousness is the scepter of Your kingdom. Your rule is perfectly just'.

(Hebrews 1:9) 
You have loved justice and hated iniquity. Therefore, God, Your God, has anointed You with the oil of gladness more than Your companions.

(Hebrews 1:10) 
And: 'You, O Lord, in the beginning laid the foundation of the earth, and the universe is the work of Your hands'.

(Hebrews 1:11) 
They will perish, but You remain. And they will all grow old like a garment.

(Hebrews 1:12) 
Like a cloak You will fold them up, and they will be changed. But You are the same, and Your years will not come to an end.

(Hebrews 1:13) 
But to which of the angels has God ever said: 'Sit at My right hand, until I make Your enemies a footstool for Your feet'?

(Hebrews 1:14) 
Are they not all ministering spirits, sent forth on a mission to serve on behalf of those who are to inherit salvation?

(Hebrews 2:1) 
Therefore, we must pay much closer attention to the truths we have heard, so that we do not drift away from God’s truth.

(Hebrews 2:2) 
For if the Old Law, which was spoken to us through angels, was established as true and firm, and every transgression and act of disobedience to that Law received a just and deserved punishment,

(Hebrews 2:3) 
how shall we escape God’s judgment if we neglect this great salvation? This salvation was first announced directly by the Lord Himself, and then it was confirmed to us by those who personally heard Him speak.

(Hebrews 2:4) 
God also bore witness to this salvation through signs, wonders, and various powerful miracles, along with distributions of the Holy Spirit’s gifts, all according to His own divine will.

(Hebrews 2:5) 
For it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, the new order of creation that we are now speaking about.

(Hebrews 2:6) 
However, someone once testified in Scripture, saying: 'What is man, that You are mindful of him? Or the son of man, that You visit him?'

(Hebrews 2:7) 
You made him a little lower than the angels. You crowned him with glory and honor, and You appointed him over all the works of Your hands.

(Hebrews 2:8) 
You put all things under his feet.' Indeed, by subjecting all things to him, God left nothing that is not subject to man. However, right now, we do not yet see all things fully subjected to man in the world.

(Hebrews 2:9) 
But we do see Jesus, who for a little while was made lower than the angels—we see Him crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of His death. He suffered death for every single person, so that through this experience, He might be made fully suitable and perfect to be our merciful High Priest.

(Hebrews 2:10) 
For it was entirely fitting that God the Father—for Whom and through Whom all things exist—in bringing many sons and daughters into His glory, would make the Author of their salvation perfect through suffering.

(Hebrews 2:11) 
For both He who makes holy (Jesus Christ) and those who are made holy (the faithful) are all from one Father. For this reason, Christ is not ashamed to call them His brothers and sisters, saying:

(Hebrews 2:12) 
'I will proclaim Your Name to My brothers and sisters. In the midst of the assembled Church, I will sing Your praises.'

(Hebrews 2:13) 
And again He says, 'I will put My trust completely in Him.' And again, 'Here I am, with the children God has given Me.'

(Hebrews 2:14) 
Since these children of God share a common human nature of flesh and blood, Jesus Himself likewise fully partook in that very same nature. He did this so that through His own death, He might destroy the one who holds the dominion of death, which is the devil,

(Hebrews 2:15) 
and so that He might free all those who, throughout their entire lives, were held in bondage by the constant fear of death.

(Hebrews 2:16) 
For He certainly did not come to the aid of angels, nor did He take on their nature; rather, He took on the nature of humanity, specifically, the descendants of Abraham.

(Hebrews 2:17) 
Therefore, it was necessary for Him to be made like His brothers and sisters in every single way, so that He might become a merciful and faithful High Priest in service to God. Through this, He would make atonement and propitiation for the sins of His people.

(Hebrews 2:18) 
For because He Himself suffered and was tempted, He is now powerfully able to come to the aid of those who are also being tempted.

(Hebrews 3:1) 
Therefore, my holy brothers and sisters, you who share in a heavenly calling, focus your attention on Jesus, the Apostle and High Priest of our faith.

(Hebrews 3:2) 
He is faithful to God, who appointed Him, just as Moses was faithful in all of God's own household.

(Hebrews 3:3) 
For Jesus has been considered worthy of greater glory than Moses, just as the builder of a house has greater honor than the house itself.

(Hebrews 3:4) 
For every house is built by someone, but the One who built all things is God.

(Hebrews 3:5) 
And Moses was certainly faithful in all of God's household as a servant, testifying to the things that would be revealed later.

(Hebrews 3:6) 
But Christ is faithful as a Son presiding over His own household. We are that household, if we hold firmly to our confidence and the glorious boast of our hope until the very end.

(Hebrews 3:7) 
Therefore, as the Holy Spirit says: 'Today, if you hear His voice,

(Hebrews 3:8) 
do not harden your hearts, just as during the provocation on the day of testing in the wilderness,

(Hebrews 3:9) 
where your ancestors tested My patience and proved My power, even though they saw My works for forty years.

(Hebrews 3:10) 
That is why I was greatly provoked with that generation, and I declared: 'These people always go astray in their hearts. Indeed, they have not known My ways,' 

(Hebrews 3:11) 
just as I swore in My anger, 'They shall never enter into My rest.''

(Hebrews 3:12) 
Be careful, brothers and sisters, that none of you should ever have an evil, unbelieving heart that would lead you to fall away from the living God.

(Hebrews 3:13) 
Instead, encourage one another daily, as long as it is still called 'Today,' so that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.

(Hebrews 3:14) 
For we have become sharers in Christ, if indeed we hold firmly to the very foundation of our confidence in Him until the end.

(Hebrews 3:15) 
As it is said, 'Today, if you hear His voice, do not harden your hearts just as in that ancient provocation.'

(Hebrews 3:16) 
For some, when they heard God's voice, rebelled against Him. However, not everyone who came out of Egypt under the leadership of Moses rebelled.

(Hebrews 3:17) 
And with whom was God provoked for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose bodies lay dead and scattered in the wilderness?

(Hebrews 3:18) 
And to whom did God swear that they would not enter into His rest, if not to those who were unbelieving?

(Hebrews 3:19) 
So we see that they were not able to enter because of their unbelief.

(Hebrews 4:Hebrews 4:1) 
Therefore, let us be seriously concerned and afraid that, even though the promise of entering into God's eternal rest is still available, some among you may be considered to have failed to enter it.

(Hebrews 4:Hebrews 4:2) 
For indeed, the Good News was preached to us, just as it was to that earlier generation in the desert. But the message they heard did not benefit them, because it was not mixed with faith in the hearts of those who heard it.

(Hebrews 4:Hebrews 4:3) 
For we who have believed are truly entering into God's rest, just as God said concerning the disobedient generation of Israel: 'As I swore in My wrath, they shall certainly not enter into My rest.' And yet, God's works, the finished creation of the universe and the earth, were completed from the very moment the world was founded, meaning the rest was always prepared.

(Hebrews 4:Hebrews 4:4) 
For God spoke in a specific passage concerning the seventh day, saying exactly this: 'And God rested on the seventh day from all His works.'

(Hebrews 4:Hebrews 4:5) 
And again, in that same passage, God emphasizes the condition: 'They shall certainly not enter into My rest.'

(Hebrews 4:Hebrews 4:6) 
Since, therefore, it still remains for some people to enter into that eternal rest, and since those to whom the Good News was first proclaimed did not enter because of their deep-seated unbelief and disobedience,

(Hebrews 4:Hebrews 4:7) 
God again defines a specific time for entry, emphasizing it as 'Today,' speaking through the Psalms of David after such a long period of time. Just as it was said earlier: 'Today, if you hear His voice, do not harden your hearts.'

(Hebrews 4:Hebrews 4:8) 
For if Joshua, who led the Israelites, had given them the *true* rest—the ultimate and perfect rest God intended—God would never have spoken of another 'today' or another time of rest after that.

(Hebrews 4:Hebrews 4:9) 
Therefore, a true and spiritual Sabbath rest, a participation in God's eternal peace and completion, remains for the people of God.

(Hebrews 4:Hebrews 4:10) 
For whoever has entered into God's rest has also ceased from his own works and efforts to earn salvation, just as God ceased from His works of creation after they were finished.

(Hebrews 4:Hebrews 4:11) 
Let us therefore make every effort and hasten to enter into that rest, so that no one may fall by following the same example of stubborn unbelief and disobedience shown by the ancient Israelites.

(Hebrews 4:Hebrews 4:12) 
For the Word of God is alive and actively working. It is more piercing and decisive than any two-edged sword, and it reaches even to the deepest separation of soul and spirit, even to the joints and the marrow, fully discerning and judging the hidden thoughts and true intentions of the human heart.

(Hebrews 4:Hebrews 4:13) 
And there is no creature, no part of creation, that is invisible or hidden from His sight. Indeed, all things are laid bare and are completely open before the eyes of Him to whom we must give account.

(Hebrews 4:Hebrews 4:14) 
Therefore, since we have such a great High Priest who has passed through the created cosmos and ascended into the presence of God Himself—Jesus, the Son of God—let us hold firmly to our confession of faith in Him.

(Hebrews 4:Hebrews 4:15) 
For we do not have a High Priest who is unable to sympathize with our human weaknesses and sufferings. Rather, we have One who has been tempted in every way, just as we are, yet without committing any sin.

(Hebrews 4:Hebrews 4:16) 
Therefore, let us approach with bold confidence to the throne of God's grace, so that we may receive His divine mercy and find His grace to help us precisely when it is most needed.

(Hebrews 5:1) 
Every high priest, taken from among men, is appointed to act on behalf of humanity in matters that pertain to God. His role is to offer up gifts and make sacrifices to atone for sins.

(Hebrews 5:2) 
Because he himself is subject to human weakness, he is able to feel compassion for those who act ignorantly and who make mistakes.

(Hebrews 5:3) 
And because of this weakness, he must offer sacrifices for his own sins, just as he does for the sins of the people.

(Hebrews 5:4) 
And no one presumes to take this high priestly honor upon himself, but only he who is called by God to do so, just as Aaron was.

(Hebrews 5:5) 
In the same way, God the Son did not appoint Himself to be the High Priest, nor did He glorify Himself in this role. Rather, it was God the Father who spoke to Him, declaring: 'You are My Son, and today I have begotten You.'

(Hebrews 5:6) 
Just as He also says in another passage: 'You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek.'

(Hebrews 5:7) 
During His time on Earth as a man, God the Son offered up prayers and urgent appeals, with fervent cries and tears, to God the Father, who had the power to save Him from the finality of death. And He was heard and received in His reverence and devotion.

(Hebrews 5:8) 
And although He was already the Son of God, He learned the full meaning and depth of obedience through the sufferings He endured.

(Hebrews 5:9) 
And being made perfect in His human nature through these sufferings, He became the ultimate source of eternal salvation for all who obey Him.

(Hebrews 5:10) 
Thus, He was appointed by God to be a High Priest, in the same sacred line and according to the order of Melchizedek.

(Hebrews 5:11) 
Concerning this, we have much to say, but it is difficult for us to explain it to you, because you have become spiritually slow and dull of hearing.

(Hebrews 5:12) 
For even though by now, given the time that has passed, you ought to be teaching others, instead you still need someone to teach you again the basic, foundational truths of God's teachings. You have become like infants who require milk, not solid spiritual nourishment.

(Hebrews 5:13) 
For everyone who continues to subsist on milk alone is inexperienced in the deeper teachings of righteousness, because he is still a spiritual child.

(Hebrews 5:14) 
But solid spiritual food is meant for those who are mature and have achieved spiritual perfection. These are the ones who, through consistent practice and experience, have trained their spiritual faculties to discern between what is truly good and what is evil.

(Hebrews 6:6:1) 
Therefore, let us leave behind the basic, initial teachings about Christ. We should move on to a more complete and mature understanding, not laying again the foundation of repentance from spiritually dead works and foundational faith in God,

(Hebrews 6:6:2) 
This foundation includes teachings about baptisms, the laying on of hands, the resurrection of the dead, and the final eternal judgment.

(Hebrews 6:6:3) 
And we will do this—that is, move on to maturity—if God permits us.

(Hebrews 6:6:4) 
Indeed, it is impossible to bring back to repentance those who were once enlightened, who tasted the heavenly gift of divine grace, and who became sharers in the Holy Spirit,

(Hebrews 6:6:5) 
and who tasted the goodness of God's revealed doctrine, and experienced the miraculous powers of the age to come—

(Hebrews 6:6:6) 
if they then fell away from the faith. It is impossible to renew them again for repentance, because by their actions, they crucify the Son of God again for themselves and hold Him up to public shame.

(Hebrews 6:6:7) 
For the land that drinks in the rain that often falls upon it, and then produces useful vegetation for those who cultivate it, receives a blessing from God.

(Hebrews 6:6:8) 
But the land that produces thorns and thistles is worthless, and is near to being cursed. Its ultimate end is to be burned.

(Hebrews 6:6:9) 
But concerning you, beloved ones, we are confident of better things—things that lead to salvation—even though we speak this way with warnings.

(Hebrews 6:6:10) 
For God is not unjust so as to forget your work and the love you have shown for His name, in that you have ministered to the saints, and continue to minister to them.

(Hebrews 6:6:11) 
But we earnestly desire that each one of you show the same diligence and care, so that your hope may be fully realized right up to the very end.

(Hebrews 6:6:12) 
This is so that you do not become sluggish, but rather become imitators of those who, through faith and patience, inherit the promises of God.

(Hebrews 6:6:13) 
For when God made a promise to Abraham, because He had no one greater by whom to swear, He swore by Himself,

(Hebrews 6:6:14) 
saying, "I will surely bless you, and I will surely multiply your descendants."

(Hebrews 6:6:15) 
And so, by patiently enduring, Abraham received the promise.

(Hebrews 6:6:16) 
For people swear by someone greater than themselves, and an oath serves as the final confirmation for all their disputes, settling the matter.

(Hebrews 6:6:17) 
In the same way, God, desiring to show more abundantly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeable nature of His purpose, guaranteed it with an oath.

(Hebrews 6:6:18) 
This was so that by two unchangeable things—namely, His promise and His oath—in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have fled for refuge might have a very strong encouragement to hold fast to the hope set before us.

(Hebrews 6:6:19) 
This hope we have as a sure and steadfast anchor for our soul, which penetrates beyond the veil into the Most Holy Place,

(Hebrews 6:6:20) 
where Jesus, our forerunner, has entered on our behalf, having become a High Priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek.

(Hebrews 7:7:1) 
For this Melchizedek, king of Salem and a priest of the Most High God, was the one who met Abraham as he was returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him.

(Hebrews 7:7:2) 
Abraham then gave him a tenth of everything. First, his name, 'Melchizedek,' is interpreted as 'King of Righteousness.' And then, his title, 'King of Salem,' means 'King of Peace.'

(Hebrews 7:7:3) 
He is recorded as having no father, no mother, and no earthly genealogy. He has no recorded beginning of days, nor any end of life. He is thus likened to the Son of God, and in this way, he remains a priest forever.

(Hebrews 7:7:4) 
Now, consider how great this man was, for Abraham, who was himself the great patriarch, gave this Melchizedek a tenth of all the choicest spoils he had taken in battle.

(Hebrews 7:7:5) 
And truly, those priests who are descended from Levi's sons have a divine command to collect a tenth of all property from the people, according to the Law given by God. This means they collect from their own brethren, the other Israelites, even though these brethren also descended from Abraham's lineage.

(Hebrews 7:7:6) 
But Melchizedek, whose genealogy is not counted among the Levites, received tithes from Abraham. And this priest, who had the divine promises bestowed upon him, then blessed Abraham.

(Hebrews 7:7:7) 
Now, it is beyond any dispute and universally acknowledged that the person who is of a lesser status is always blessed by the person who is of a greater status.

(Hebrews 7:7:8) 
In the case of the Levitical priesthood, tithes are collected by mere mortal men, who are destined to die. But in the case of Melchizedek, the Scripture attests that he lives, and his priesthood has no end.

(Hebrews 7:7:9) 
And it could even be said, in a symbolic sense, that through Abraham, even Levi—who later became the ancestor of the very priests who collect tithes—was himself tithed by Melchizedek.

(Hebrews 7:7:10) 
For Levi was still present in the loins of his ancestor, Abraham, when Melchizedek met Abraham and received the tithes.

(Hebrews 7:7:11) 
Therefore, if spiritual perfection could have been achieved through the Levitical priesthood, what further need was there for God to raise up another priest, one described as being 'according to the order of Melchizedek'? And why would he not be called 'according to the order of Aaron'?

(Hebrews 7:7:12) 
For when there is a change in the established priesthood, it is necessary that a change in the entire Law also takes place.

(Hebrews 7:7:13) 
For the one about whom these things are said, that is, Christ, belongs to a completely different tribe of Israel, one from which no one has ever served as a priest at the altar of God.

(Hebrews 7:7:14) 
For it is perfectly clear and well-known that our Lord Jesus Christ was born from the tribe of Judah, and regarding this tribe, Moses said nothing at all concerning their right to have priests.

(Hebrews 7:7:15) 
And it becomes even more abundantly clear that this new priesthood is necessary if another priest arises, one who is specifically 'according to the likeness of Melchizedek'.

(Hebrews 7:7:16) 
This new priest has become such, not by virtue of a merely human, fleshly law, like the Levitical priests, but by the indestructible power of an unending life.

(Hebrews 7:7:17) 
For indeed, the Scripture bears witness, saying to the Son of God: 'You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek.'

(Hebrews 7:7:18) 
Thus, the former commandment, which established the Levitical priesthood, is set aside and invalidated. This is done because that old commandment was weak and ultimately useless to bring about salvation.

(Hebrews 7:7:19) 
For the Law, in itself, could not make anyone perfectly righteous or fully reconcile them with God. But now, through the New Covenant, we have been given the introduction of a far better hope, and by this hope, we are able to draw near to God with confidence.

(Hebrews 7:7:20) 
This new High Priesthood was not established without a solemn oath from God Himself.

(Hebrews 7:7:21) 
For the Levitical priests were made priests without any oath from God, but our High Priest, Christ, was made priest with an oath directly from God, as God Himself declared to Him: 'The Lord has sworn an unbreakable oath and will not change His mind: "You are a priest forever."'

(Hebrews 7:7:22) 
By virtue of this solemn divine oath, Jesus has become the very guarantee and surety of a vastly superior covenant between God and man.

(Hebrews 7:7:23) 
The Levitical priests became numerous, one after another, precisely because they were all mortal and were prevented by death from remaining in their office permanently.

(Hebrews 7:7:24) 
But Jesus, because He lives and remains in His priesthood forever, possesses an unchangeable, permanent, and continuous priesthood.

(Hebrews 7:7:25) 
Therefore, He is also perfectly able to save for all eternity those who approach God the Father through Him, Jesus Christ. He is always living in heaven for the specific purpose of interceding before the Father on our behalf.

(Hebrews 7:7:26) 
For indeed, such a high priest was perfectly suited and necessary for us: one who is holy, innocent, and completely undefiled by sin, one who is set apart from sinners, and who has been exalted to a position higher than all the created skies and celestial realms.

(Hebrews 7:7:27) 
He has no need, as the Old Covenant priests did daily, to offer sacrifices first for his own sins, and only then for the sins of the people.

(Hebrews 7:7:28) 
For Christ accomplished this definitive act of atonement once and for all when He offered Himself as the perfect sacrifice.

(Hebrews 8:1) 
The main point of everything we are saying is this: We have such a High Priest, who has taken His seat at the right hand of the throne of Majesty in the heavens —meaning He is in charge of all things,

(Hebrews 8:2) 
and He serves in the true holy places, in the true tabernacle —the actual dwelling place of God, which the Lord Himself established, not any human being.

(Hebrews 8:3) 
For every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices; therefore, it was necessary for Christ, our High Priest, to also have something to offer.

(Hebrews 8:4) 
If He were on Earth, He wouldn't even be a priest at all, because there are already priests who offer gifts according to the Law of Moses.

(Hebrews 8:5) 
These earthly priests serve only as a copy and shadow of the heavenly realities. This is just as God instructed Moses when he was about to build the earthly tabernacle: He said, “See to it that you make everything according to the pattern shown to you on the mountain” —referring to the divine blueprint God gave Moses.

(Hebrews 8:6) 
But now, Christ has obtained a much more excellent ministry, because He is the Mediator of a better covenant —a new agreement between God and humanity, which has been legally established on better promises.

(Hebrews 8:7) 
For if that first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no reason to seek a second one.

(Hebrews 8:8) 
For God Himself found fault with them, saying through the prophet Jeremiah: “Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah;

(Hebrews 8:9) 
It will not be like the covenant I made with their fathers on the day I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; for they did not remain faithful to My covenant, and so I turned away from them, declares the Lord.

(Hebrews 8:10) 
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord: I will put My laws into their minds, and I will write them on their hearts. And I will be their God, and they shall be My people.

(Hebrews 8:11) 
And no one will have to teach his neighbor, or his brother, saying, ‘Know the Lord,’ because all of them will know Me, from the least to the greatest” —meaning all will have direct knowledge of God.

(Hebrews 8:12) 
For I will be merciful toward their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more.”

(Hebrews 8:13) 
By speaking of a “new” covenant, God has made the first one obsolete. And what is becoming obsolete and aging is about to vanish completely.

(Hebrews 9:1) 
Indeed, the first covenant itself had its ordinances of worship, by which they would be made ritually right, and it had a sanctuary which was of this world, built on earth.

(Hebrews 9:2) 
For a tabernacle was set up, the first part. In this part were the lampstands, and the table, and the showbread. This first part is called the Holy Place.

(Hebrews 9:3) 
But behind the second veil was the second part of the tabernacle, which is called the Holy of Holies.

(Hebrews 9:4) 
This part contained a golden censer, and the Ark of the Covenant, which was covered on all sides with gold. Inside the Ark was a golden urn holding manna, and Aaron's rod which had miraculously budded, and the stone tablets on which the covenant was written.

(Hebrews 9:5) 
Above the Ark were the Cherubim of Glory, overshadowing the mercy seat. Now, it is not possible to speak in detail about each of these things.

(Hebrews 9:6) 
With all these things arranged in this way, the priests regularly entered the first part of the tabernacle. There, they performed the acts of worship and completed the sacrificial duties.

(Hebrews 9:7) 
But into the second part, the Holy of Holies, only the high priest entered, and only once a year. He never entered without blood, which he would offer for his own sins and for the sins committed by the people out of ignorance.

(Hebrews 9:8) 
By these arrangements, the Holy Spirit was indicating that the way into God's true holy presence was not yet fully opened to humanity, as long as the first, earthly tabernacle was still standing and operational.

(Hebrews 9:9) 
This earthly tabernacle is a symbol for the present time, a time in which gifts and sacrifices are still being offered that cannot, in good conscience, make the worshipper truly perfect before God.

(Hebrews 9:10) 
These rituals are only about external things: foods, drinks, various ceremonial washings, and other outward regulations for the flesh, all of which were imposed only until the time when God would establish a new, better order.

(Hebrews 9:11) 
But Christ has now come forward as the High Priest of the good things that were to come. He ministers through a tabernacle that is much greater and more perfect, one not made by human hands; that is to say, it is not part of this created world.

(Hebrews 9:12) 
He did not enter by the blood of goats or young bulls, as the earthly high priest did. Instead, He entered the true heavenly Holy of Holies once for all time, by His own precious blood, having secured eternal redemption for us.

(Hebrews 9:13) 
For if the blood of goats and bulls, and the ashes of a heifer sprinkled on those who are ritually defiled, can make them outwardly holy for the cleansing of the flesh,

(Hebrews 9:14) 
then how much more powerfully will the blood of Christ cleanse our consciences from dead works! Christ, through the eternal Holy Spirit, offered Himself as a spotless sacrifice to God. His sacrifice purifies us so that we may truly serve the living God.

(Hebrews 9:15) 
And for this reason, Christ is the Mediator of the new covenant. His death has occurred as a ransom for the transgressions committed under the first covenant. This means that those who have been called by God can now receive the promise of an eternal inheritance.

(Hebrews 9:16) 
For where there is a testament—a will—it is absolutely necessary that the death of the one who made the will, the testator, has occurred for it to be valid.

(Hebrews 9:17) 
A will is only confirmed and becomes legally binding once the person who made it has died. Otherwise, it is not yet valid as long as the testator is still alive.

(Hebrews 9:18) 
This is why even the first covenant was not dedicated and made official without the shedding of blood.

(Hebrews 9:19) 
For after Moses had read every commandment of the Law to all the people, he took the blood of calves and goats, mixed it with water, and used scarlet wool and hyssop to sprinkle the book of the Law itself and all the people.

(Hebrews 9:20) 
He declared, 'This is the blood of the covenant which God has commanded for you, marking His solemn agreement with you.'

(Hebrews 9:21) 
In the same way, Moses also sprinkled the tabernacle and all the vessels used for its service with blood.

(Hebrews 9:22) 
Indeed, according to the Law, almost everything is cleansed with blood, and there is no forgiveness of sins without the shedding of blood.

(Hebrews 9:23) 
Therefore, it was necessary for the earthly copies of the heavenly realities to be cleansed with these kinds of animal sacrifices. However, the heavenly realities themselves had to be purified with far better sacrifices than these.

(Hebrews 9:24) 
For Christ did not enter into a sanctuary made by human hands, which is merely a copy of the true one. Instead, He entered into the universe itself, the true dwelling place of God, to appear now directly before the face of God on our behalf.

(Hebrews 9:25) 
Nor did Christ need to offer Himself repeatedly, as the earthly high priest enters the Holy of Holies year after year with blood that is not his own.

(Hebrews 9:26) 
If that were the case, then He would have had to suffer many times since the very beginning of the world. But instead, He has appeared only once, at the culmination of all ages, to put an end to sin definitively through His own sacrifice.

(Hebrews 9:27) 
And just as it is appointed for all human beings to die once, and after that comes the judgment,

(Hebrews 9:28) 
so also Christ was offered once to bear away the sins of many people. He will appear a second time, not to deal with sin, but to bring full salvation to those who eagerly await Him.

(Hebrews 10:1) 
The Law of Moses was only a shadow of the good things that were to come, not the real and perfect substance of those things. Because of this, it could never make perfect those who constantly approached God through the same animal sacrifices offered year after year.

(Hebrews 10:2) 
If those sacrifices could have made people perfect, they would have stopped being offered. Because then, those who had been truly cleansed through that worship would no longer have been conscious of their sins.

(Hebrews 10:3) 
Instead, those sacrifices served as a reminder of sins every single year.

(Hebrews 10:4) 
This is because it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to actually take away sins.

(Hebrews 10:5) 
This is why, when Jesus Christ came into the world, He said: 'You, O God, did not want the animal sacrifices and grain offerings from the Old Covenant. Instead, you specifically prepared a human body for me to offer.'

(Hebrews 10:6) 
'You were not pleased with the burnt offerings and sin offerings, because they could not truly remove sin.'

(Hebrews 10:7) 
'Then I, Jesus Christ, said: See, I have come! As it is written about Me in the scroll of the Law, I have come to do Your will, O God.'

(Hebrews 10:8) 
First, He said: 'You did not desire, nor were You pleased with, the sacrifices, offerings, burnt offerings, and sin offerings, which were offered according to the Law of Moses.'

(Hebrews 10:9) 
Then He added: 'See, I have come to do Your will, O God.' By saying this, He sets aside the old system of animal sacrifices in order to establish the new, perfect sacrifice of His own body.

(Hebrews 10:10) 
And it is by this specific will of God, fully accomplished by Jesus Christ, that we have been made holy through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ, once for all time.

(Hebrews 10:11) 
Indeed, every Old Covenant priest stands day after day performing his duties, repeatedly offering the same sacrifices, none of which can ever truly take away sins.

(Hebrews 10:12) 
But Jesus Christ, having offered one single sacrifice for sins that is perfect for all time, now sits forever at the right hand of God the Father in heaven.

(Hebrews 10:13) 
From that moment on, He waits until all His enemies are utterly subjected to Him, like a footstool under His feet.

(Hebrews 10:14) 
For by that one offering, He has permanently perfected and brought to their full spiritual end those who are being sanctified.

(Hebrews 10:15) 
The Holy Spirit Himself also confirms this truth to us; for after He (speaking through the Prophet Jeremiah) had declared:

(Hebrews 10:16) 
'This is the New Covenant I will make with them after those days,' says the Lord. 'I will put My divine laws into their hearts, and I will inscribe them on their minds.'

(Hebrews 10:17) 
'And I will no longer remember their sins and their lawless deeds.'

(Hebrews 10:18) 
Now, where there is this full and complete forgiveness of sins, there is no longer any need for a sacrifice for sin.

(Hebrews 10:19) 
Therefore, my dear brothers and sisters in Christ, since we have confident access into the most holy presence of God, through the blood of Jesus Christ,

(Hebrews 10:20) 
through the new and living way that He opened for us. This way passes through the veil, which is to say, through His own physical body, broken on the Cross.

(Hebrews 10:21) 
And since we have Jesus Christ as our great High Priest, who presides over the spiritual house of God—the Church—

(Hebrews 10:22) 
let us draw near to God with sincere hearts, having full assurance of faith. Our hearts have been spiritually cleansed from a guilty conscience, and our bodies have been washed with the pure water of baptism.

(Hebrews 10:23) 
Let us hold firmly and without wavering to the profession of our Christian hope, because God, who has promised these things, is utterly faithful and will fulfill them.

(Hebrews 10:24) 
And let us consider how we can stir up one another to love and to good works of charity,

(Hebrews 10:25) 
not neglecting our communal gathering for worship, as some have made it their habit to do. Instead, let us encourage one another in our faith, and do this all the more as you see the Day of the Lord’s return drawing near.

(Hebrews 10:26) 
For if we deliberately and willfully continue to sin, after we have received and understood the full knowledge of the truth of Christ, then there no longer remains any other sacrifice that can atone for our sin.

(Hebrews 10:27) 
Instead, there remains only a terrifying expectation of judgment and the fury of an all-consuming fire that will justly devour those who oppose God.

(Hebrews 10:28) 
Anyone who rejected or nullified the Law of Moses was put to death without mercy, based on the testimony of two or three witnesses.

(Hebrews 10:29) 
How much worse punishment, do you think, will be deserved by the person who has trampled underfoot the Son of God Himself? This person has treated as unholy the very blood of the New Covenant—the blood by which they were sanctified—and has grievously insulted the Holy Spirit of grace.

(Hebrews 10:30) 
For we know Him who said: 'Vengeance belongs to Me; I will repay those who deserve it.' And again: 'The Lord will indeed judge His own people.'

(Hebrews 10:31) 
It is a terrifying thing to fall into the hands of the living God, who will execute perfect justice.

(Hebrews 10:32) 
Remember the early days of your conversion, after you received the spiritual light of Christ. You endured a great struggle filled with suffering and persecution.

(Hebrews 10:33) 
Sometimes you were publicly exposed to shame and persecution, made a spectacle before others. At other times, you became sympathetic companions of those who were suffering such things.

(Hebrews 10:34) 
Indeed, you showed compassion to those who were imprisoned, and you cheerfully accepted the seizure of your own possessions. This was because you knew that you yourselves possessed a far better and an eternally enduring spiritual wealth.

(Hebrews 10:35) 
So then, do not throw away your courageous confidence in Christ, which is accompanied by a great and lasting reward.

(Hebrews 10:36) 
For you need to persevere with steadfast patience. Only by faithfully doing the will of God will you receive the fulfillment of His promises.

(Hebrews 10:37) 
For 'in a very little while now, He who is coming will come, and He will not delay!'

(Hebrews 10:38) 
'Now, my righteous one will live by faith.' But the Scripture also warns: 'If anyone shrinks back from this faith, My soul—God Himself—will take no pleasure in him.'

(Hebrews 10:39) 
But we are not those who shrink back from faith and are destined for perdition and eternal loss. Instead, we are those who hold fast to faith, leading to the preservation and eternal salvation of our souls.

(Hebrews 11:1) 
Now, faith is the actual, underlying reality of all that we hope for;
it is the conviction and proof of things we cannot yet see.

(Hebrews 11:2) 
For through this kind of faith, the holy people of ancient times received God's full approval.

(Hebrews 11:3) 
By faith we understand that the entire universe was perfectly ordered and made by God the Son’s spoken Word,
so that everything we can see was made from things that are invisible.

(Hebrews 11:4) 
By faith, Abel offered a more excellent sacrifice to God than Cain did.
Through this faith, he received God's approval as righteous, for God Himself bore witness to his offerings.
And even though he is long dead, through his faith, he still speaks to us.

(Hebrews 11:5) 
By faith, Enoch was taken away from this world so that he would not experience death;
he could not be found, because God had taken him.
Before he was taken, he had already received God’s approval, for he had pleased God.

(Hebrews 11:6) 
But without faith, it is impossible to please God.
For anyone who wishes to draw near to God must believe that He exists,
and that He is the rewarder of those who diligently seek Him.

(Hebrews 11:7) 
By faith, Noah, after receiving a divine warning about things that were not yet visible (the coming flood),
was reverently moved and prepared an ark for the salvation of his household.
Through this act of faith, he condemned the faithless world around him
and became an heir of the righteousness which comes by faith.

(Hebrews 11:8) 
By faith, Abraham, when he was called by God,
obeyed by going out to a place that he was later to receive as an inheritance;
he left his home not knowing where he was going, trusting only in God.

(Hebrews 11:9) 
By faith, he lived as a temporary resident in the land that had been promised to him, treating it as a foreign country.
He lived in tents, along with Isaac and Jacob, who were fellow heirs of the same divine promise.

(Hebrews 11:10) 
For Abraham was looking forward to the heavenly city that has firm foundations,
a city whose divine architect and builder is God Himself.

(Hebrews 11:11) 
By faith, even Sarah herself, though she was barren and past the age of childbearing,
received the divine power to conceive a child,
because she believed that the One who had given the promise was faithful.

(Hebrews 11:12) 
Therefore, from one man, who was as good as dead (due to his old age),
were born descendants as numerous as the stars in the sky
and as countless as the sand on the seashore.

(Hebrews 11:13) 
All these faithful people died in faith, without having received the full fulfillment of the promises themselves.
Instead, they saw and greeted them from afar,
and confessed that they were strangers and temporary residents on this earth.

(Hebrews 11:14) 
For those who speak in this manner plainly declare that they are seeking their true, heavenly homeland.

(Hebrews 11:15) 
And if they had indeed kept in mind the earthly country from which they departed,
they would have had plenty of opportunity to return to it.

(Hebrews 11:16) 
But as it is, they desired a better country, that is, a heavenly one.
Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God,
for He has prepared a heavenly city for them.

(Hebrews 11:17) 
By faith, Abraham offered Isaac as a sacrifice when God tested him.
He, who had received the divine promises, was willing to offer his only son of the promise.

(Hebrews 11:18) 
It was about Isaac that God had said, 'It is through Isaac that your lineage of promised descendants will be named and established'.

(Hebrews 11:19) 
Abraham reasoned that God was powerful enough to raise Isaac even from the dead.
And indeed, from that event, he received Isaac back as a symbolic representation of a greater resurrection.

(Hebrews 11:20) 
By faith, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, speaking prophetically about their future.

(Hebrews 11:21) 
By faith, Jacob, as he was dying, blessed each of Joseph's sons.
And he worshipped God, bowing down while leaning on the top of his staff.

(Hebrews 11:22) 
By faith, Joseph, when he was dying, made mention of the future departure of the children of Israel from Egypt,
and he gave specific instructions concerning his bones.

(Hebrews 11:23) 
By faith, when Moses was born, he was hidden for three months by his parents,
because they saw that he was an exceptionally beautiful child and they were not afraid of the king's cruel edict to kill all male infants.

(Hebrews 11:24) 
By faith, Moses, when he had grown to adulthood, refused to be known as the son of Pharaoh's daughter,

(Hebrews 11:25) 
choosing instead to suffer affliction with the people of God,
rather than to enjoy the fleeting and temporary pleasures of sin.

(Hebrews 11:26) 
He considered the suffering and disgrace endured for the sake of the Messiah to be far greater riches than all the treasures of Egypt,
for he was looking forward to God's eternal reward.

(Hebrews 11:27) 
By faith, he left Egypt, not fearing the fierce wrath of the king.
For he persevered, seeing the invisible God as clearly as if He were visible.

(Hebrews 11:28) 
By faith, he instituted the Passover and the sprinkling of blood,
so that the destroyer of the firstborn would not touch the children of Israel.

(Hebrews 11:29) 
By faith, the Israelites passed through the Red Sea as if on dry ground.
But when the Egyptians attempted to do the same, they were swallowed up and drowned.

(Hebrews 11:30) 
By faith, the walls of Jericho fell down after they had been encircled for seven days.

(Hebrews 11:31) 
By faith, Rahab, who had been a harlot, did not perish with those who disobeyed God,
because she welcomed the Israelite spies in peace.

(Hebrews 11:32) 
And what more shall I say?
For I do not have enough time to tell of the faith of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel, and the prophets.

(Hebrews 11:33) 
Through faith, these men conquered kingdoms, administered true justice, obtained divine promises,
and stopped the mouths of lions.

(Hebrews 11:34) 
They quenched the power of fiery attacks, escaped the sharp edge of the sword,
recovered from severe illness and weakness, became valiant in battle, and routed the invading armies of foreigners.

(Hebrews 11:35) 
Women received their dead loved ones back to life through a resurrection.
But others were tortured, refusing to accept release or deliverance from their suffering,
in order that they might attain a better resurrection unto eternal life.

(Hebrews 11:36) 
Still others endured severe ridicule and painful flogging,
and even suffered chains and imprisonment.

(Hebrews 11:37) 
They were stoned to death, they were sawn in two, they faced extreme trials and temptations, they were put to death by the sword.
They wandered about in garments of animal skins, being destitute, persecuted, and cruelly treated.

(Hebrews 11:38) 
The world was not worthy of these faithful ones.
They wandered in deserts and mountains, and lived in dens and caves of the earth.

(Hebrews 11:39) 
And all these, though they obtained a good testimony through their faith, did not receive the full ultimate promise of God.

(Hebrews 11:40) 
This was because God had foreseen something even better for us, the New Covenant,
so that they would not be made perfect or reach their ultimate fulfillment without us.

(Hebrews 12:12:1) 
Therefore, since we also have such a great cloud of Saints as witnesses surrounding us, let us put aside every burden and every sin that easily entangles us, and let us run with perseverance the struggle that is set before us.

(Hebrews 12:12:2) 
Let us look to Jesus, the One who authored and perfected our faith. For the joy that was set before Him, He patiently endured the cross, despising its shame, and He now sits at the right hand of God's throne.

(Hebrews 12:12:3) 
For consider Jesus, who endured such opposition from sinners against Himself, so that you do not grow weary and lose heart in your souls.

(Hebrews 12:12:4) 
For in your struggle against sin, you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood for the Faith.

(Hebrews 12:12:5) 
And you have forgotten the exhortation that speaks to you as God's children, saying: "My child, do not neglect the Lord's discipline, and do not lose heart when you are corrected by Him."

(Hebrews 12:12:6) 
For the Lord disciplines those He loves, and He scourges every child whom He accepts as His own.

(Hebrews 12:12:7) 
Endure with discipline. God is dealing with you as His true children, for what child is there whom a father does not correct and train?

(Hebrews 12:12:8) 
But if you are without discipline—which all legitimate children of God share in—then you are illegitimate and not true children.

(Hebrews 12:12:9) 
Furthermore, we respected our earthly fathers who disciplined us. Should we not much more readily submit to the Father of our spirits and truly live and be saved?

(Hebrews 12:12:10) 
For our earthly fathers disciplined us for a short time, according to what they thought best. But God disciplines us for our ultimate good, so that we may partake in His divine holiness and become Saints.

(Hebrews 12:12:11) 
Now, all discipline, while it is happening, seems to bring sorrow rather than joy. But afterwards, for those who have been trained by it, it yields the most peaceful fruit of true righteousness and justice.

(Hebrews 12:12:12) 
Therefore, strengthen your drooping hands and feeble knees,

(Hebrews 12:12:13) 
and make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be dislocated, but rather be healed and strengthened.

(Hebrews 12:12:14) 
Pursue peace with all people, and pursue holiness, for without holiness no one will see God.

(Hebrews 12:12:15) 
Look diligently to it that no one fails to obtain God's grace, and that no root of bitterness springs up to cause trouble, by which many are defiled and turned away from the Faith.

(Hebrews 12:12:16) 
See to it that no one is sexually immoral or profane, like Esau, who for a single meal sold his divine birthright as the firstborn.

(Hebrews 12:12:17) 
For you know that afterwards, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected. He found no opportunity for true repentance, even though he sought it diligently with tears.

(Hebrews 12:12:18) 
For you have not come to a tangible mountain, Mount Sinai, that could be touched—a mountain blazing with fire, surrounded by a whirlwind, darkness, and storm,

(Hebrews 12:12:19) 
nor to the sound of a trumpet, nor to a voice speaking words so terrifying that those who heard it begged that no further word be spoken to them.

(Hebrews 12:12:20) 
For they could not endure the command that was given: "If even an animal touches the mountain, it shall be stoned."

(Hebrews 12:12:21) 
So terrifying was that sight that even Moses said, "I am terrified and trembling."

(Hebrews 12:12:22) 
But you have come instead to Mount Sion, to the city of the living God, which is the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels,

(Hebrews 12:12:23) 
and to the Church of the firstborn, whose names are written in the heavenly registry, and to God, the Judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous who have been made perfect,

(Hebrews 12:12:24) 
and to Jesus, the Mediator of the new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood which speaks a better word than the blood of Abel, which cries out for vengeance.

(Hebrews 12:12:25) 
See to it that you do not refuse Him who speaks. For if those who refused Him who spoke on Earth, the Law through Moses, did not escape punishment, how much less shall we escape if we turn away from Him who speaks to us from the heavens, Jesus Christ!

(Hebrews 12:12:26) 
His voice then shook the Earth at Sinai, but now He has promised, saying: "Yet once more, I will shake not only the Earth, but also the entire created universe."

(Hebrews 12:12:27) 
Now, this phrase "Yet once more" signifies the removal of created things that can be shaken, so that those things that cannot be shaken may remain and stand firm forever.

(Hebrews 12:12:28) 
Therefore, since we are receiving an unshakable Kingdom, let us be grateful, and by this gratitude, let us serve God acceptably with reverence and awe.

(Hebrews 12:12:29) 
For our God is a consuming fire, a refining fire that purifies His Saints and destroys His enemies.

(Hebrews 13:13:1) 
Let the love of your fellow Christians remain in your hearts.

(Hebrews 13:13:2) 
Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers. Through this practice, some people have unknowingly given shelter to angels.

(Hebrews 13:13:3) 
Remember those who are imprisoned for their faith, as if you yourselves were chained with them. Also, remember those who are suffering, as if you yourselves were experiencing the same physical hardships.

(Hebrews 13:13:4) 
Let marriage be held in honor by all people, and let the marriage bed remain undefiled by sin. For God will certainly judge those who engage in sexual immorality and adultery.

(Hebrews 13:13:5) 
Your way of life should be free from the sin of avarice. Be content with the material blessings you currently possess. For God Himself has promised us, saying: "I will never abandon you; nor will I ever desert you."

(Hebrews 13:13:6) 
So, with firm confidence, we can proclaim: "The Lord is my unfailing helper and protector. Therefore, I will not fear anything that any human being can do to harm me."

(Hebrews 13:13:7) 
Remember your spiritual leaders, the ones who first taught you the saving Word of God. Consider carefully the outcome of their way of life, how they persevered in faith until death, and imitate their unwavering faith in God.

(Hebrews 13:13:8) 
Jesus Christ is the same divine person always. He was the same yesterday, He is the same today, and He will remain the same for all eternity.

(Hebrews 13:13:9) 
Do not allow yourselves to be led astray by various and unfamiliar doctrines. It is far better for your heart to be strengthened and established by God's grace, rather than by rules concerning foods, which have proven useless to those who meticulously observed them.

(Hebrews 13:13:10) 
We Christians have a spiritual altar, from which to eat. Those who continue to serve in the Old Covenant tabernacle rituals have no right or power to partake of this new, perfect sacrifice.

(Hebrews 13:13:11) 
In the Old Covenant, the blood of certain animals was brought into the Holy of Holies by the high priest to atone for sin. The bodies of those very animals were then burned completely outside the camp of Israel.

(Hebrews 13:13:12) 
For this reason, Jesus Himself, in order to sanctify His people through the shedding of His own precious blood, suffered and died outside the city gate of Jerusalem.

(Hebrews 13:13:13) 
Let us, therefore, courageously go forth from the old ways and join Him outside the camp, willingly bearing the same scorn and disgrace that He endured.

(Hebrews 13:13:14) 
For we do not possess a permanent earthly city or homeland in this present world. Instead, we are earnestly seeking the heavenly city and everlasting Kingdom that is yet to come.

(Hebrews 13:13:15) 
Therefore, through Jesus Christ, let us continually offer to God a sacrifice of praise. This sacrifice is the spiritual fruit of our lips, which confess and glorify His holy Name.

(Hebrews 13:13:16) 
Moreover, do not forget to do good works for others and to share your material possessions with those in need. For God is truly pleased and propitiated by such sacrifices of charity.

(Hebrews 13:13:17) 
Obey your spiritual leaders and humbly submit to their authority. For they diligently watch over your immortal souls, knowing that they will one day have to give an account to God for their stewardship. Obey them so that they may carry out their duties with joy, and not with sorrowful groaning, for that would certainly not be beneficial for your spiritual welfare.

(Hebrews 13:13:18) 
Please pray for us, your spiritual guides. We are confident that we possess a good and clear conscience in all matters, as we earnestly desire to conduct ourselves honorably in every aspect of our lives.

(Hebrews 13:13:19) 
I especially implore you to pray for this specific intention: that I may be restored to your presence more quickly.

(Hebrews 13:13:20) 
Now, may God, the very source of all peace, who, through the precious blood of the eternal covenant, brought back from the dead our Lord Jesus Christ, the great Shepherd of His flock,

(Hebrews 13:13:21) 
may He perfectly equip and prepare you in every good work, enabling you to faithfully accomplish His divine will. May He accomplish within you, through Jesus Christ, that which is truly pleasing in His sight. To this same Jesus Christ be all glory and honor, for all ages, forever and ever. Amen.

(Hebrews 13:13:22) 
Now, brothers and sisters, I earnestly ask you to patiently receive this message of consolation and encouragement. For, indeed, I have written to you in a relatively brief manner.

(Hebrews 13:13:23) 
Understand that our brother Timothy has been released from his confinement. If he arrives quickly, I plan to visit you along with him.

(Hebrews 13:13:24) 
Extend my greetings to all your spiritual leaders, and to all the holy people in your community. The Christian believers here in Italy also send their greetings to you.

(Hebrews 13:13:25) 
May the grace of God be with all of you. Amen.

(James 1:James 1:1) 
James, a servant of God and of our Lord Jesus Christ, sends greetings to the twelve tribes who are scattered abroad.

(James 1:James 1:2) 
My brothers, consider it a cause for total joy when you encounter many different kinds of trials.

(James 1:James 1:3) 
This is because you know that the testing of your faith produces perseverance within you.

(James 1:James 1:4) 
But perseverance must do its perfect work so that you may become perfect and complete, lacking nothing spiritually.

(James 1:James 1:5) 
If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives generously to all and does not reproach anyone for asking, and it will be given to him.

(James 1:James 1:6) 
But let him ask in faith, without any doubting in his mind. For whoever doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed about by the wind.

(James 1:James 1:7) 
Let that man not imagine that he will receive anything from the Lord.

(James 1:James 1:8) 
A man who is double-minded is unstable in all his ways and actions.

(James 1:James 1:9) 
But let the brother of humble means glory in his true exaltation, which is God's grace.

(James 1:James 1:10) 
And let the rich man glory in his humility, because he will pass away like the flower of the field.

(James 1:James 1:11) 
For the sun rises with scorching heat and withers the grass. Its flower falls off, and its beautiful appearance perishes completely. So also will the rich man fade away in all his worldly endeavors.

(James 1:James 1:12) 
Blessed is the man who endures temptation, because when he has been proven to be faithful, he will receive the crown of life, which God has promised to those who love Him.

(James 1:James 1:13) 
Let no one who is tempted say that he is being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted by evil, and He Himself tempts no one to do evil.

(James 1:James 1:14) 
But each person is tempted when he is dragged away and enticed by his own evil desires.

(James 1:James 1:15) 
Then, when evil desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin. And when sin is fully grown, it brings forth eternal death.

(James 1:James 1:16) 
Do not be deceived, my most beloved brothers.

(James 1:James 1:17) 
Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow of change.

(James 1:James 1:18) 
By His own will, He brought us forth by the word of truth so that we might be a kind of firstfruits of His creation.

(James 1:James 1:19) 
You know this, my most beloved brothers. But let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak, and slow to anger.

(James 1:James 1:20) 
For the anger of man does not bring about the righteousness that God desires.

(James 1:James 1:21) 
Therefore, cast off all impurity and every overflowing remnant of malice. And humbly receive the implanted word of God, which has the power to save your souls.

(James 1:James 1:22) 
But be doers of the word, and not merely hearers, deceiving yourselves with false piety.

(James 1:James 1:23) 
For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man observing his natural face in a mirror.

(James 1:James 1:24) 
For he observes himself, then walks away, and immediately forgets what he was like.

(James 1:James 1:25) 
But whoever looks intently into the perfect law of liberty and perseveres in it, not having become a forgetful hearer, but a doer who acts upon it—that man will be blessed in what he does.

(James 1:James 1:26) 
If anyone thinks he is religious, yet does not bridle his tongue, but deceives his own heart, this man's religion is utterly worthless.

(James 1:James 1:27) 
Pure and undefiled religion in the sight of God the Father is this: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unstained by the world's sinful ways.

(James 2:2:1) 
My beloved brothers, do not act partially, nor show favoritism, as you hold to the faith of our glorious Lord Jesus Christ.

(James 2:2:2) 
For if a man wearing an expensive gold ring and splendid attire enters your gathering, and then also a poor man in filthy, worn-out clothing enters,

(James 2:2:3) 
and you focus your attention on the one wearing the splendid clothing, and you say to him, “You, sit here, in a place of honor.” But to the poor man you say, “You, stand over there,” or, “Sit down here on the floor, at my feet.”

(James 2:2:4) 
In doing so, are you not making distinctions among yourselves, and have you not become judges whose very thoughts are evil?

(James 2:2:5) 
Listen, my beloved brothers: Has not God chosen the poor of this world to be rich in the gift of faith, and to be heirs of the Kingdom that God promised to those who love Him?

(James 2:2:6) 
But you, on the other hand, have dishonored the poor man. Do not the rich oppress you by their great power? And is it not they who drag you into court?

(James 2:2:7) 
Do not the rich blaspheme the holy name of God, by which you are known as Christians?

(James 2:2:8) 
If you truly fulfill the royal law, which is the supreme law found in the Scriptures: “You shall love your neighbor as you love yourself”—you are doing well.

(James 2:2:9) 
But if you show partiality to persons, you are committing a sin, and you stand condemned by the law as lawbreakers.

(James 2:2:10) 
For whoever keeps the entire law, yet stumbles in even one command, has become guilty of breaking all of it.

(James 2:2:11) 
For the one who said, “You shall not commit adultery,” also said, “You shall not kill.” If you do not commit adultery, but you do kill, then you have become a transgressor of the entire law.

(James 2:2:12) 
Therefore, speak in this way and act in this way, understanding that you will be judged by the law that grants true freedom in Christ.

(James 2:2:13) 
For merciless judgment awaits the one who has shown no mercy. However, divine mercy triumphs over judgment itself.

(James 2:2:14) 
What good is it, my beloved brothers, if someone claims to have faith, but has no good works to show for it? Can that kind of empty faith save him?

(James 2:2:15) 
If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking daily food,

(James 2:2:16) 
and one of you says to them, “Go in peace, be warmed and well-fed,” yet you do not give them what their bodies truly need—what good is such an empty blessing?

(James 2:2:17) 
In the same way, faith by itself, if it does not have good works, is dead and worthless.

(James 2:2:18) 
But someone might say, “You have faith, and I have works.” My answer to him is: “Show me your faith, if it is without any good works to prove it; but I, for my part, will show you my faith through my good works.”

(James 2:2:19) 
You believe that there is only one God. You do well to believe this! Yet, even the demons believe that, and they tremble with fear at His power.

(James 2:2:20) 
But do you wish to know, O man of empty understanding, that faith without good works is truly dead and useless?

(James 2:2:21) 
Was not Abraham, our father, justified by his good works when he offered his son Isaac upon the altar?

(James 2:2:22) 
You see then that his faith was working together with his good works, and by his good works, his faith was made perfect and complete.

(James 2:2:23) 
And in this way, the Scripture was fulfilled which says: “Abraham believed God, and his belief was counted to him as righteousness.” And he was called “the Friend of God.”

(James 2:2:24) 
You see then that a man is justified by his good works, and not by faith alone.

(James 2:2:25) 
In the same way, was not Rahab, the harlot, also justified by her good works when she welcomed the messengers and sent them out by a different path?

(James 2:2:26) 
For just as the body without a soul is dead, so also faith without good works is dead.

(James 3:1) 
My brothers, do not be eager to become teachers among yourselves, because those who teach will be judged more strictly by God.

(James 3:2) 
For we all stumble and make mistakes in many ways. If someone never makes a mistake with their words, that person is truly a perfect man. Such a one is powerful enough to guide and control their entire body, just as a horse is led by a bridle.

(James 3:3) 
Consider how we put a bridle into a horse's mouth so that it will obey us. With that bridle, we can guide its entire body wherever we wish.

(James 3:4) 
Or consider ships, which are very large and are driven by strong winds. They are steered by a very small rudder, guided by the intention of the pilot.

(James 3:5) 
In the same way, the tongue is a small part of the body, yet it makes great boasts. Just see how a tiny spark of fire can set an entire forest ablaze!

(James 3:6) 
And the tongue itself is a fire; it is a complete realm of evil. The tongue is set among our body parts, and it can corrupt the entire body. It sets on fire the entire course of our lives and our destiny, because it is ignited by Gehenna—that is, by the forces of hell.

(James 3:7) 
For every kind of wild animal, and of birds, and of serpents, and of all other creatures on land and in the sea, is tamed and has been tamed by mankind.

(James 3:8) 
But no one among humanity has the power to tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison.

(James 3:9) 
With the tongue, we bless God the Father. Yet with the very same tongue, we curse men who are made in the likeness of God Himself.

(James 3:10) 
From the very same mouth comes both blessing and cursing. My brothers, it is not right that these things should happen this way.

(James 3:11) 
Can a spring pour forth fresh water and bitter water from the same opening at the same time?

(James 3:12) 
My brothers, can a fig tree produce olives, or a grapevine produce figs? No, and neither can a spring produce both salty and fresh water from the same source.

(James 3:13) 
Is there anyone among you who is wise and truly understanding? Let that person show their good works by living a good life, demonstrating their actions with the gentleness that comes from true wisdom.

(James 3:14) 
But if you harbor bitter envy and selfish ambition in your hearts, then do not boast of your wisdom and do not lie against the truth revealed by God.

(James 3:15) 
For this kind of so-called 'wisdom' does not descend from Heaven, from God. Instead, it is earthly in its origin, unspiritual in its nature, and demonic in its source.

(James 3:16) 
For wherever you find envy and selfish ambition, there you will also find disorder and every kind of evil practice.

(James 3:17) 
But the wisdom that comes from Heaven, from God, is first of all pure. Then it is peaceable, gentle, and willing to yield to what is right. It is full of mercy and produces good fruits, showing no partiality and acting without hypocrisy.

(James 3:18) 
And the harvest of righteousness is sown in peace, by those who are peacemakers.

(James 4:1) 
Where do wars and quarrels among you come from? Is it not from this: from your sinful desires, which wage war within your very bodies and souls?

(James 4:2) 
You crave things, and yet you do not have them. You would murder to get them, and you are consumed by envy, yet you still cannot obtain what you want. You quarrel and wage war, yet you do not have what you desire, because you do not ask God for it.

(James 4:3) 
You ask for things, and you do not receive them, because your intentions for asking are evil; you only ask to spend it on your disordered passions.

(James 4:4) 
You spiritually unfaithful people! Do you not know that friendship with this present age is enmity against God? Therefore, whoever chooses to be a friend of this world's ways makes himself an enemy of God.

(James 4:5) 
Or do you think that the Scripture speaks in vain when it says: The Holy Spirit who dwells within you yearns jealously for your faithfulness, seeking you solely for Himself?

(James 4:6) 
But God gives even greater grace. This is why it says: God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble.

(James 4:7) 
Therefore, submit yourselves to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.

(James 4:8) 
Draw near to God, and He will draw near to you. Wash your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you who are double-minded and divided in your loyalty.

(James 4:9) 
Be wretched, mourn, and weep over your sins. Let your laughter be turned into mourning, and your joy into sorrow.

(James 4:10) 
Humble yourselves in the presence of the Lord, and He will lift you up.

(James 4:11) 
Brothers, do not speak evil of one another. Whoever speaks evil of his brother, or judges his brother, speaks evil of the Law of God and presumes to judge the Law itself.

(James 4:12) 
But if you judge the Law, you are not a doer of the Law, but its judge.

(James 4:13) 
There is only one Lawgiver and Judge, God alone. He has the power to destroy and to save souls.

(James 4:14) 
But who are you, a mere human, to judge your neighbor?

(James 4:15) 
Now listen, you who say: “Today or tomorrow, we will go to such and such a city, and we will spend a year there, buy and sell, and make a profit”:

(James 4:16) 
But you do not even know what tomorrow will bring, or if you will be alive.

(James 4:17) 
What is your life, after all? It is merely a vapor that appears for a little while and then vanishes into nothingness.

(James 4:18) 
Instead of saying, as you should: “If the Lord wills it, and if we live, we will do this or that.”

(James 4:19) 
But as it is, you boast in your arrogant plans, full of pride and presumption.

(James 4:20) 
All such boasting is evil and inspired by malice against God's Providence.

(James 4:21) 
Therefore, to anyone who knows what is good and right to do, but intentionally does not do it, for him it is a sin.

(James 5:1) 
Now listen, you rich people, and start to wail and cry out, because terrible suffering is coming upon you.

(James 5:2) 
Your accumulated wealth has rotted away, and your fine clothing has been devoured by moths.

(James 5:3) 
Your gold and silver have become corroded and worthless. That very corrosion will stand as evidence against you, and it will consume your bodies as if by fire. You have spent your time hoarding up worldly riches and storing up God's wrath for yourselves in these final days before Christ's return.

(James 5:4) 
Look! The wages of the workers who harvested your crops, wages you fraudulently withheld from them, are now crying out against you. The cries of those workers have reached the ears of the Lord of Hosts, the God of all armies in heaven and on earth.

(James 5:5) 
You have lived lives of opulent indulgence on earth, and you have fattened your hearts as if for a day of slaughter, oblivious to the coming judgment.

(James 5:6) 
You have condemned and even murdered the righteous, and they offered no resistance to your injustices.

(James 5:7) 
Therefore, be patient, my brothers and sisters, enduring until the Lord's return. Consider the farmer who patiently waits for the valuable produce of the earth. He endures patiently until the ground receives both the early autumn rains for planting and the late spring rains for harvest.

(James 5:8) 
You also must be patient and strengthen your resolve, because the Lord's return is drawing near.

(James 5:9) 
Do not grumble or complain against one another, my brothers and sisters, so that you yourselves will not be judged for it. Remember, the Judge is already standing at the door, ready to enter.

(James 5:10) 
My brothers and sisters, take the prophets, who spoke on behalf of the Lord, as an example of endurance through suffering and of unwavering patience.

(James 5:11) 
Indeed, we acknowledge as blessed those who have patiently endured. You have heard about the steadfast endurance of Job through his trials, and you have seen the Lord’s ultimate purpose in his story, for the Lord is full of mercy and compassion.

(James 5:12) 
But above all, my beloved brothers and sisters, do not swear oaths at all—not by the sky, nor by the earth, nor by any other created thing. Instead, let your simple affirmation be 'yes,' and your simple denial be 'no,' so that you do not fall under the judgment of God.

(James 5:13) 
Is there anyone among you who is suffering hardship or sorrow? Then that person should pray. Is there anyone who is joyful and content? Then that person should sing praises to God.

(James 5:14) 
Is anyone among you gravely ill? That person should call for the priests of the Church, and they should pray over him, anointing him with blessed oil in the Name of the Lord Our God, according to the holy Sacrament of Anointing of the Sick.

(James 5:15) 
And the prayer offered with sincere faith will bring healing to the sick person, and the Lord will raise him from his affliction. And if he has committed any sins, those sins will be forgiven him.

(James 5:16) 
Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for each other, so that you may be healed and saved. For the persistent and fervent prayer of a righteous person has tremendous power before God.

(James 5:17) 
Elijah was a human being just like us, sharing in all our human frailties. Yet he prayed with such fervent prayer that it would not rain on the earth, and indeed, it did not rain for three years and six months.

(James 5:18) 
Then he prayed once more, and the sky gave forth its rain, and the earth produced an abundant harvest of its fruit.

(James 5:19) 
My brothers and sisters, if any of you has strayed from the truth of the Catholic Faith, and someone else brings him back,

(James 5:20) 
that person should know that whoever leads a sinner to repent and turn back from his mistaken path will save that sinner's soul from eternal death and cover a multitude of sins for them both.

(1 Peter 1:1) 
Peter, an Apostle of Jesus Christ, writes this letter to God's chosen ones—all those who live as spiritual exiles, scattered throughout the regions of Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia.

(1 Peter 1:2) 
These chosen ones are known by the foreknowledge of God the Father, and they are set apart by the Holy Spirit for a life of obedience, purified by the sprinkling of the Blood of Jesus Christ. May grace and peace be multiplied abundantly in you.

(1 Peter 1:3) 
Blessed be God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! Because of His immense mercy, He has given us new birth, so that we now live in a true and living hope, all through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead.

(1 Peter 1:4) 
This new birth leads to an inheritance that can never decay, spoil, or fade away—an inheritance kept safe in heaven for all of you.

(1 Peter 1:5) 
Through your faith, you are being guarded by the power of God for a salvation that is ready to be fully revealed in the last days of this age.

(1 Peter 1:6) 
Because of this hope, you will greatly rejoice, even though for a short time—if it is necessary—you may have to suffer various trials and tests.

(1 Peter 1:7) 
This happens so that the genuineness of your faith—which is far more precious than perishable gold, even gold refined by fire—may be found to result in praise, glory, and honor when Jesus Christ is fully revealed.

(1 Peter 1:8) 
Even though you have never seen Him, you love Him. And even though you do not see Him now, you believe in Him. And because you believe, you rejoice with an inexpressible joy that is already filled with glory.

(1 Peter 1:9) 
You are already receiving the ultimate goal of your faith: the salvation of your souls.

(1 Peter 1:10) 
Concerning this very salvation, the prophets of old meticulously searched and diligently inquired. They were the ones who prophesied about the grace that would eventually come to you.

(1 Peter 1:11) 
They were earnestly seeking to understand what specific time or circumstances the Spirit of Christ, who was within them, was indicating. The Spirit had foretold Christ's sufferings and the glories that would follow.

(1 Peter 1:12) 
It was revealed to those prophets that they were not serving themselves, but rather serving you, when they ministered these truths. Now, these same truths have been announced to you through those who preached the Gospel to you, empowered by the Holy Spirit sent from God's heavenly domain. These are truths so profound that even the angels long to look into them.

(1 Peter 1:13) 
Therefore, prepare your minds for action by mentally girding yourselves, and be alert and self-controlled. Place your complete hope in the grace that will be brought to you at the full revelation of Jesus Christ.

(1 Peter 1:14) 
As truly obedient children, do not conform yourselves to the evil desires that you once had when you lived in ignorance of God's ways.

(1 Peter 1:15) 
Instead, just as the One who called you is holy, you yourselves must also be holy in all aspects of your conduct and way of life.

(1 Peter 1:16) 
For the Scripture says: 'You shall be holy, because I am holy.'

(1 Peter 1:17) 
And if you call upon Him as Father—the One who judges each person's actions impartially, without favoritism—then live your lives in reverent fear during this time of your earthly pilgrimage.

(1 Peter 1:18) 
For you know very well that you were not set free from your futile way of life, inherited from your ancestors, by anything perishable like silver or gold.

(1 Peter 1:19) 
Instead, you were set free by the precious Blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or defect.

(1 Peter 1:20) 
He was known by God the Father before the creation of the world, but He was fully revealed in these last times for your sake.

(1 Peter 1:21) 
Through Christ, you are believers in God, who raised Him from the dead and gave Him glory. This was done so that your faith and hope might be securely placed in God.

(1 Peter 1:22) 
Now that you have purified your souls through obedience to the truth, leading to sincere fraternal love, you must love one another intensely and with a pure heart.

(1 Peter 1:23) 
You have been born again, not from perishable seed, but from imperishable seed, through the living and eternally enduring Word of God.

(1 Peter 1:24) 
For 'All human life is like grass, and all its glory is like the flower of the field. The grass withers, and the flower falls away.'

(1 Peter 1:25) 
But the Word of the Lord remains forever.' This is the very Word that was proclaimed to you through the Gospel.

(1 Peter 2:1) 
Therefore, you must put away all malice, all deceit, all hypocrisy, all envy, and all forms of slander.

(1 Peter 2:2) 
Like spiritual newborns, you must truly desire the pure, unadulterated spiritual milk of God's truth, so that by it you may grow in the Lord and attain salvation.

(1 Peter 2:3) 
Do this especially if you have already experienced how good the Lord is.

(1 Peter 2:4) 
Come to Jesus, the Living Stone. He was rejected by men, yet God chose Him and honored Him greatly.

(1 Peter 2:5) 
You yourselves are also like living stones, being built into a spiritual house. This house is a holy priesthood, whose purpose is to offer spiritual sacrifices that are acceptable to God through Jesus Christ Our Lord.

(1 Peter 2:6) 
For this reason, the Scripture states: 'Behold, I am placing in Zion a chief cornerstone, chosen and precious. Whoever believes in Him will never be put to shame.'

(1 Peter 2:7) 
Therefore, honor belongs to you who believe. But for those who do not believe, the stone that the builders rejected has become the very head of the corner—the most important stone.

(1 Peter 2:8) 
To unbelievers, He is a stumbling stone and a rock that causes them to fall. They stumble because they disobey the word of God by not believing in Him, and this is the purpose for which they were appointed.

(1 Peter 2:9) 
But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God Himself. You are chosen so that you may proclaim the wonderful works of Him who called you out of the darkness of sin and into His marvelous light.

(1 Peter 2:10) 
In the past, you were not God's people, but now you are the people of God. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received God's mercy.

(1 Peter 2:11) 
Beloved, I urge you as temporary residents and sojourners in this world to abstain from fleshly desires. These desires war against your very soul.

(1 Peter 2:12) 
Maintain excellent conduct among the Gentiles. Then, even when they falsely accuse you as evildoers, they will observe your good works. In doing so, they will give glory to God when He comes to judge the world.

(1 Peter 2:13) 
Be subject to every human authority for the Lord's sake. This includes the king as the supreme authority.

(1 Peter 2:14) 
It also includes governors who are sent by the king to punish evildoers and to praise those who do good.

(1 Peter 2:15) 
For it is God's will that by doing good, you silence the ignorant accusations of foolish people.

(1 Peter 2:16) 
Live as free people, but do not use your freedom as a cloak to conceal evil. Instead, live as servants of God.

(1 Peter 2:17) 
Honor everyone. Love the brotherhood of believers. Fear God above all. Honor the king.

(1 Peter 2:18) 
Servants, be subject to your masters with all reverence. This applies not only to those who are good and gentle, but also to those who are difficult or harsh.

(1 Peter 2:19) 
For this is a gracious act in the eyes of God: if, because of your devotion and conscience toward God, you endure sorrows, even when suffering unjustly.

(1 Peter 2:20) 
What glory is there if you endure a beating when you have sinned? But if you endure patiently while doing good, this is truly a gracious act in the sight of God.

(1 Peter 2:21) 
For you were called to this very purpose: because Christ also suffered for us, leaving you an example so that you might follow in His footsteps.

(1 Peter 2:22) 
He committed no sin, and no deceit was ever found in His mouth.

(1 Peter 2:23) 
When He was reviled with insults, He did not return insults. When He suffered, He did not threaten vengeance. Instead, He entrusted Himself to Him who judges righteously.

(1 Peter 2:24) 
He Himself carried our sins in His own body on the wood of the Cross. This was so that we, having died to the power of sin, might live for righteousness. By His wounds, you have been healed of your spiritual maladies.

(1 Peter 2:25) 
For you were like sheep who had gone astray, but now you have returned to the Shepherd and Guardian of your souls.

(1 Peter 3:1) 
Likewise, wives, be submissive to your own husbands, so that even if some of them are disobedient to the Gospel, you may win them over not by preaching, but by your chaste conduct, lived in proper reverence and respect for God.

(1 Peter 3:2) 
They will observe your pure, chaste, and respectful behavior.

(1 Peter 3:3) 
Your adornment should not be merely an outward display of elaborate hairstyles, or of gold jewelry, or of dressing in fashionable clothing.

(1 Peter 3:4) 
Rather, let your beauty be the hidden inner person of the heart, manifested by the imperishable quality of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is very precious and valuable in the sight of God.

(1 Peter 3:5) 
For this is how the holy women of old, who put their hope in God, used to adorn themselves: by being submissive to their own husbands.

(1 Peter 3:6) 
Just as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him 'lord' as a sign of respect. You are her true spiritual daughters if you do good and are not intimidated by any kind of fear that might arise from your good actions.

(1 Peter 3:7) 
Husbands, likewise, live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the female, considering her the physically weaker vessel. Also, regard them as co-heirs with you of the grace of life, so that your prayers are not hindered.

(1 Peter 3:8) 
Finally, all of you should be of one mind and purpose, sympathetic to one another, loving as brothers and sisters, compassionate, humble in spirit.

(1 Peter 3:9) 
Do not return evil for evil, nor insult for insult. Instead, return a blessing; for this is why God has called you: to inherit a blessing from Him.

(1 Peter 3:10) 
For he who desires to love life and to see good days must keep his tongue from speaking evil, and his lips from speaking deceit.

(1 Peter 3:11) 
He must turn away from evil and do good; he must seek peace and actively pursue it.

(1 Peter 3:12) 
For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and His ears are open to their prayers. But the face of the Lord is set against those who do evil.

(1 Peter 3:13) 
And who will harm you if you are zealous for what is good and eager to do it?

(1 Peter 3:14) 
But even if you suffer for the sake of righteousness, you are blessed. Do not fear the threats of those who oppose you, and do not be troubled by them.

(1 Peter 3:15) 
Instead, sanctify the Lord Christ in your hearts as holy. Always be ready to give an adequate explanation to anyone who asks you for the reason for the hope that is within you.

(1 Peter 3:16) 
But do this with gentleness and reverence, maintaining a good conscience. Then, in the very matter that they speak evil of you, those who falsely accuse your good conduct in Christ will be shamed.

(1 Peter 3:17) 
For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that is God's will, than to suffer for doing evil.

(1 Peter 3:18) 
For Christ also suffered once for our sins, the just for the unjust, that He might bring us to God. He was put to death in the flesh, but brought to life by the Holy Spirit.

(1 Peter 3:19) 
In this same Holy Spirit, He also went and proclaimed His victory to the spirits who were being held in the realm of the dead.

(1 Peter 3:20) 
These were the ones who were disobedient long ago, when God's patience waited during the days of Noah, as the ark was being built. In that ark, a few—that is, eight souls—were saved through water.

(1 Peter 3:21) 
Baptism, which is a corresponding sign to that event, now saves you as well. It is not merely the removal of dirt from the body, but rather the appeal or commitment of a good conscience to God, made possible through the Resurrection of Jesus Christ.

(1 Peter 3:22) 
He is now at the right hand of God, having completely swallowed death so that we might be made heirs of eternal life. He has ascended into the created universe, to a place beyond our sight, and all angels, authorities, and powers have been made subject to Him.

(1 Peter 4:1) 
Since Christ suffered for you in the flesh, you also should arm yourselves with the same mindset. This is the mindset that whoever suffers in the flesh—as Christ did—is finished with the life of sin.

(1 Peter 4:2) 
This means that for the rest of your time in this bodily life, you should no longer live according to worldly human desires, but according to the will and commandments of God.

(1 Peter 4:3) 
The time you have already spent living according to the ways of non-believers is enough. That past life was filled with excessive pleasures, sinful desires, habitual drunkenness, wild parties, public carousing, and the forbidden worship of idols.

(1 Peter 4:4) 
Because you no longer join them in that same flood of debauchery and sin, they are surprised. And because they are surprised, they speak evil of you and blaspheme God.

(1 Peter 4:5) 
But those who blaspheme you will have to give an account to the Lord. He is prepared and ready to judge all people, both those who are still alive and those who have died.

(1 Peter 4:6) 
For this very purpose, the Good News was also preached to those who are now dead in their bodies. The purpose was that even though they might be judged in their human nature by men —meaning they suffered physical death—they might still live in their spirit according to the eternal life given by God.

(1 Peter 4:7) 
Now, the culmination and end of all things is drawing near. Therefore, be clear-headed and exercise self-control, and be watchful and diligent in your prayers.

(1 Peter 4:8) 
But above all these things, maintain a fervent and constant divine charity for one another. This is because divine charity—supernatural love—covers a multitude of sins.

(1 Peter 4:9) 
Practice hospitality to one another without grumbling or complaining about the inconvenience.

(1 Peter 4:10) 
Each person, according to the specific divine gift of grace he has received, should use that grace to serve one another. Act as good and faithful stewards of God's varied and multifaceted grace.

(1 Peter 4:11) 
If anyone speaks to the community, he should speak as if delivering the very words of God Himself. If anyone serves, he should serve with the strength and spiritual power that God Himself supplies. This is all so that in every action, God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To Him alone belongs all glory and dominion for all ages and eternity. Amen.

(1 Peter 4:12) 
My dearly beloved, do not be surprised or consider it something strange when you experience the fiery trials that come to test your faith. Do not act as if something utterly new or unexpected is happening to you.

(1 Peter 4:13) 
Instead, find joy in the fact that you share in the sufferings of Christ. This is so that when His glory is finally revealed, you may also rejoice with exceeding gladness and triumph.

(1 Peter 4:14) 
If you are insulted or reproached for the sake of the name of Christ, then you are truly blessed. For the Spirit of glory, which is the very Spirit of God, rests upon you and dwells within you.

(1 Peter 4:15) 
However, let none of you suffer justly as a murderer, or a thief, or an evil-doer, or as a busybody interfering in other people's affairs.

(1 Peter 4:16) 
But if someone suffers for being a Christian, he should not be ashamed of that name. Instead, he should glorify God because he bears that holy name.

(1 Peter 4:17) 
For the appointed time has now come for judgment to begin with the household of God—meaning, with the Church and its members. And if judgment begins first with us, what will be the ultimate end of those who do not believe and obey the Good News of God?

(1 Peter 4:18) 
And if even the righteous person is saved only with great difficulty and by God’s immense mercy, where will the ungodly and the persistent sinner find a place to stand on the Day of Judgment?

(1 Peter 4:19) 
Therefore, let those who suffer according to the providential will of God entrust and commit their souls to Him, their faithful Creator, while continuing to do good and holy works.

(1 Peter 5:1) 
Therefore, I, who am also an elder, appeal to the elders who are among you—
I am a witness of Christ’s sufferings,
and I am a sharer in the glory that will be revealed in the future.

(1 Peter 5:2) 
Shepherd the flock of God that is entrusted to you,
overseeing them not because you are forced to, but willingly, just as God desires.
Do not do it for shameful financial gain, but with eager willingness.

(1 Peter 5:3) 
Do not act as if you are domineering over the people of God,
but rather become genuine examples to the flock, from the heart.

(1 Peter 5:4) 
And when Christ, the Chief Shepherd, appears,
you will certainly receive the unfading crown of glory.

(1 Peter 5:5) 
In the same way, you younger ones, be subject to the elders.
And all of you, clothe yourselves with humility towards one another,
because God resists the proud, but He gives His grace to the humble.

(1 Peter 5:6) 
Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God,
so that He may exalt you when His time of visitation comes.

(1 Peter 5:7) 
Cast all your anxiety and worries upon Him,
because He cares for you personally.

(1 Peter 5:8) 
Be sober and keep watch:
because your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion,
seeking someone to devour.

(1 Peter 5:9) 
Resist him, standing firm in your faith,
knowing that the very same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brothers and sisters throughout the entire world.

(1 Peter 5:10) 
But the God of all grace, who has called us into His eternal glory in Christ Jesus,
after you have suffered a little while, He Himself will perfect you,
He will confirm you, He will strengthen you, and He will establish you firmly.

(1 Peter 5:11) 
To Him be glory and dominion for all ages of ages. Amen.

(1 Peter 5:12) 
Through Silvanus, whom I consider a faithful brother to you, I have written briefly,
exhorting you and testifying that this is the true grace of God, in which you now stand firm.

(1 Peter 5:13) 
The Church, which is in Babylon (Rome), chosen together with you, sends you greetings,
and so does Mark, my spiritual son.

(1 Peter 5:14) 
Greet one another with a holy kiss, a sign of Christian fellowship.
Grace be with all of you who are in Christ Jesus. Amen.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:1) 
Simon Peter, a servant and an Apostle of Jesus Christ, writes this letter to those who have received the same precious faith that we have, which is given by the righteousness of our God and Savior, Jesus Christ Himself.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:2) 
May grace and peace be multiplied to you through your knowledge of God and of Jesus Christ, Our Lord.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:3) 
Since God's divine power has given us everything we need for a life of virtue and holiness,
this comes through the knowledge of Him who called us by His own glory and power.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:4) 
Through these promises, He has granted us His most great and precious gifts.
These gifts enable you to become partakers of the divine nature,
having escaped the corruption of sinful desires that exists in the world.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:5) 
For this very reason, apply all diligence and effort.
To your faith, add virtue.
To virtue, add knowledge.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:6) 
To knowledge, add self-control.
To self-control, add patience.
To patience, add godliness.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:7) 
To godliness, add brotherly love.
And to brotherly love, add the highest form of love: charity.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:8) 
For if these virtues are present in you and are growing in abundance,
they will ensure you are not idle or unfruitful in your knowledge of Our Lord Jesus Christ.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:9) 
But anyone who lacks these virtues is spiritually blind and shortsighted.
They have forgotten that they were cleansed from their past sins.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:10) 
Therefore, brothers, strive all the more diligently
to confirm your calling and election by performing good works.
For if you do these things, you will never stumble into sin.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:11) 
For in this way, a rich and abundant entrance will be granted to you
into the eternal heavenly kingdom of Our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:12) 
Because of this, I will always be ready to remind you of these spiritual truths,
even though you already know them and are firmly established in the present truth.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:13) 
Indeed, I consider it right and proper
that as long as I am in this earthly body—my temporary dwelling—
I should stir you up by constantly reminding you of these things.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:14) 
I know that my time for laying aside this earthly body is coming quickly,
just as Our Lord Jesus Christ Himself revealed to me.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:15) 
I will also take every care and do my utmost
so that even after my death, you may often be able to recall these spiritual truths.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:16) 
We did not make known to you the power and the coming of Our Lord Jesus Christ by following cleverly invented stories or myths.
Instead, we were eyewitnesses of His glorious majesty.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:17) 
For He received honor and glory from God the Father
when a voice came to Him from the magnificent glory of God, saying:
"This is My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased."

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:18) 
And we ourselves heard this very voice coming forth from the sky,
when we were with Him on the holy mountain during His Transfiguration.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:19) 
And we possess the prophetic word, which is now even more firm and reliable.
You do well to pay attention to it, just as to a lamp shining in a dark and obscure place.
Pay attention to it until the full light of day breaks forth, and Christ, the Morning Star, arises in your hearts.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:20) 
Know this above all else:
no prophecy in Sacred Scripture comes from a prophet’s own private interpretation.

(2 Peter 1:2 Peter 1:21) 
For prophecy was never brought forth by human will or intention.
Instead, holy men of God spoke as they were inspired and moved by the Holy Spirit.

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:1) 
However, there were also false prophets among God's people, just as there will be false teachers among you, who will secretly bring in destructive heresies. They will even deny the Master, Jesus Christ, who bought them and redeemed them, thereby bringing swift and immediate destruction upon themselves.

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:2) 
And many will follow their depraved ways and their licentiousness, through whom the way of truth will be slandered and blasphemed.

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:3) 
And out of their greed, they will exploit you for profit with their fabricated stories. For them, judgment, decreed long ago, has not been idle; and their destined destruction does not sleep.

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:4) 
For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast them down to hell, delivering them into chains of gloom and the lowest part of the underworld to be kept for torment until the final judgment,

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:5) 
and if He did not spare the ancient world, but preserved Noah, a preacher of righteousness, along with seven other people, when He brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly;

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:6) 
and if He condemned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to destruction by burning them to ashes, making them an example for those who would live ungodly lives in the future;

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:7) 
and if He rescued righteous Lot, who was distressed by the indecent conduct and corrupt lifestyle of lawless men —

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:8) 
for that righteous man, as he lived among them, was tormented in his righteous soul day after day by their lawless deeds that he saw and heard —

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:9) 
then the Lord knows how to rescue the devout from temptation, and to keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment, to be tormented.

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:10) 
This is especially true for those who indulge the flesh in its corrupt desires and despise authority. They are bold and arrogant, and they do not tremble when they slander glorious beings and heavenly majesties.

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:11) 
Whereas angels, who are greater in strength and power, do not bring a slanderous judgment against them before the Lord.

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:12) 
But these people, like unreasoning animals, are creatures of mere instinct, born only to be caught and destroyed. They slander what they do not understand, and in their own corruption, they will also perish.

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:13) 
They will suffer the penalty for their wrongdoing. They consider luxurious living in broad daylight a pleasure. They are stains and blemishes, reveling in their deceptions while they feast with you.

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:14) 
Their eyes are full of adultery and never stop sinning. They entice unstable souls, and they have hearts trained in greed. They are children of curse and deserving of divine punishment.

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:15) 
They have forsaken the right way and gone astray, having followed the way of Balaam, son of Bosor, who loved the wages of wickedness.

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:16) 
But he was rebuked for his transgression: a dumb beast of burden, speaking with a human voice, restrained the prophet’s madness.

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:17) 
These men are springs without water, and mists driven by a storm. For them, the deepest gloom of darkness is reserved for all eternity.

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:18) 
For, by uttering proud words of emptiness and vainglory, they entice, through sensual desires of the flesh and licentiousness, those who are barely escaping from those who live in error and unbelief.

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:19) 
They promise them freedom, though they themselves are slaves of corruption. For by whatever a person is overcome, by that he is enslaved.

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:20) 
For if, after escaping the pollutions of the world through the saving knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled in them and overcome, their latter state has become worse for them than the former.

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:21) 
For it would have been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than having known it, to turn back from the holy commandment delivered to them.

(2 Peter 2:2 Peter 2:22) 
What happened to them is described by the true proverb: 'A dog returns to its own vomit,' and, 'A sow, after washing, returns to wallowing in the mud and filth.' 

(2 Peter 3:2 Peter 3:1) 
Beloved brothers and sisters, I am writing this second letter to you. In both of these letters, I am stirring up your sincere minds by reminding you of important truths,

(2 Peter 3:2 Peter 3:2) 
so that you may remember the words that the holy prophets foretold and the commandment given by our Lord and Savior through your Apostles.

(2 Peter 3:2 Peter 3:3) 
You should know this first and foremost: that in the last days, deceivers will come to mock you. They will live according to their own sinful desires and lead others into deception.

(2 Peter 3:2 Peter 3:4) 
They will say, 'Where is the promise of His coming?' They will claim that since our ancestors died, everything has continued exactly as it was from the very beginning of creation, implying that Christ will not return.

(2 Peter 3:2 Peter 3:5) 
They willfully ignore the truth that the universe existed before the Flood, and the earth was formed out of water and structured by water through the creative Word of God.

(2 Peter 3:2 Peter 3:6) 
And it was by these very waters that the world of that time was utterly destroyed by the great flood.

(2 Peter 3:2 Peter 3:7) 
But the present universe and the earth, by the same divine Word, are being preserved. They are reserved for fire on the Day of Judgment, when all ungodly people will be destroyed.

(2 Peter 3:2 Peter 3:8) 
However, beloved brothers and sisters, do not let this one thing escape your notice: that with the Lord, one day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years are like one day. This means that God is not limited by our human perception of time.

(2 Peter 3:2 Peter 3:9) 
The Lord is not slow concerning His promise, as some people consider it slowness. Instead, He is patiently waiting because of you. He does not want anyone to perish, but for all to return to repentance and be saved.

(2 Peter 3:2 Peter 3:10) 
But the Day of the Lord will come unexpectedly, like a thief in the night. On that Day, the heavens—meaning the created universe—will pass away with a tremendous roar, and the basic elements of matter will be dissolved by intense heat. The earth and all its works and structures will be burned up.

(2 Peter 3:2 Peter 3:11) 
Since all these things are to be dissolved in such a way, what kind of people ought you to be in holy conduct and acts of piety, preparing yourselves for that Day?

(2 Peter 3:2 Peter 3:12) 
You should be eagerly awaiting and hastening the coming of the Day of the Lord, the Day by which the burning universe will be dissolved, and the basic elements of all matter will melt away in the fervent heat of the fire.

(2 Peter 3:2 Peter 3:13) 
But we eagerly await a new universe and a new earth according to His promise—a creation in which perfect righteousness will permanently dwell.

(2 Peter 3:2 Peter 3:14) 
Therefore, beloved brothers and sisters, since you are awaiting these glorious things, strive diligently to be found by Him without any moral stain and blameless, living in peace.

(2 Peter 3:2 Peter 3:15) 
And consider the long-suffering patience of our Lord to be for your salvation—a truth that our beloved brother Paul also wrote to you, according to the divine wisdom given to him.

(2 Peter 3:2 Peter 3:16) 
He speaks of these matters in all his letters. Some things in his letters are difficult to understand, and these difficult passages are twisted and distorted by ignorant and unstable people, just as they distort the other Holy Scriptures, leading to their own eternal destruction.

(2 Peter 3:2 Peter 3:17) 
Therefore, beloved brothers, since you have been forewarned of these things, be on your guard so that you may not be led astray by the error of these foolish people and fall from your own steadfastness in the faith.

(2 Peter 3:2 Peter 3:18) 
Instead, grow in the grace and in the full, saving knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To Him be all glory, both now and for the Day of eternity. Amen.

(1 John 1:1) 
The Son of God, who has always existed from the beginning, is the one we personally heard, the one we actually saw with our own eyes, the one we looked at closely, and the one we physically touched with our hands—this is the Son who is the Word of Life.

(1 John 1:2) 
And this divine life was made physically clear to us. We saw it, and we are testifying and proclaiming to you this eternal life—the very life that was eternally with God the Father and then appeared among us.

(1 John 1:3) 
What we saw and heard with our own senses, we now proclaim to you. We do this so that you may share in our spiritual fellowship, and our fellowship is truly with God the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ.

(1 John 1:4) 
And we are writing these things to you so that you may have complete and perfect joy.

(1 John 1:5) 
And this is the essential message we heard directly from Him—from Jesus Christ—and which we now proclaim to you: God is pure light, and there is absolutely no darkness or evil within Him.

(1 John 1:6) 
If we claim to have spiritual communion with God, yet we continue to live in sin and error, then we are lying, and we are not living according to God's truth.

(1 John 1:7) 
But if we live according to God's truth—just as He Himself is in pure truth and light—then we truly have spiritual fellowship with each other, and the cleansing sacrifice of Jesus Christ, His Son, washes away all our sins.

(1 John 1:8) 
If we say that we have no sin, we are only deceiving ourselves, and the truth of God is not truly present within us.

(1 John 1:9) 
If we confess our sins to God, He is faithful to His promises and just in His nature. He will forgive us our sins and cleanse us completely from every unrighteous act.

(1 John 1:10) 
If we claim that we have not sinned, then we are essentially calling God a liar, and His divine message is not genuinely present in our hearts.

(1 John 2:1) 
My dear children, I write these things to you so that you may not sin. But even if anyone has sinned, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, who is perfectly just. He intercedes for us before God.

(1 John 2:2) 
And He Himself is the propitiation for our sins—meaning His sacrifice atones for and turns away God's just wrath. This is not for our sins only, but also for the sins of the whole world, offering salvation to all who accept it.

(1 John 2:3) 
And by this we know and are sure that we have truly come to know Him, if we keep His commandments and live according to His will.

(1 John 2:4) 
Whoever claims to know Him, yet does not keep His commandments, is a liar. The truth and the reality of faith are not in that person.

(1 John 2:5) 
But whoever keeps His word, truly in that person the love of God is perfected and brought to its full expression. And by this we know that we are abiding in Him.

(1 John 2:6) 
Whoever claims to abide in Christ ought to walk himself, living his life and conducting his affairs, just as Christ walked and lived.

(1 John 2:7) 
Beloved ones, I am not writing a new commandment to you, but an old commandment which you have had from the very beginning of your faith. This old commandment is the Word of truth which you heard when you first believed.

(1 John 2:8) 
Again, I write a new commandment to you, which is true both in Christ Himself and in you, His followers. This is because the spiritual darkness of sin and ignorance has passed away, and the true light of Christ is already shining in the world and in your hearts.

(1 John 2:9) 
Whoever says he is in the light of Christ, yet hates his brother, is in spiritual darkness even until now, despite his claim.

(1 John 2:10) 
Whoever loves his brother remains in the light, and there is no cause for stumbling or leading others to sin in him.

(1 John 2:11) 
But whoever hates his brother is in darkness and walks blindly in darkness, and he does not know where he is going, because the spiritual darkness of hatred has blinded his eyes.

(1 John 2:12) 
I write to you, dear children, because your sins are forgiven you through the power and authority of His Name, Jesus Christ.

(1 John 2:13) 
I write to you, fathers in faith (those spiritually mature), because you have come to know Him who is from the very beginning, the eternal God. I write to you, young men (those actively engaged in spiritual struggle), because you have overcome the Evil One, Satan.

(1 John 2:14) 
I have written to you, children (new believers), because you have come to know God the Father. I have written to you, fathers in faith, because you have known Him who is from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong in your faith, and the Word of God abides deeply within you, and you have overcome the Evil One.

(1 John 2:15) 
Do not love the world, meaning the fallen and sinful system of human society that is opposed to God, nor the things that are in the world. If anyone loves the world in this way, the love of God the Father is not in him.

(1 John 2:16) 
For everything that is in the world—that is, the temptations and values of this fallen system—is the disordered desire of the flesh (sensual cravings), and the disordered desire of the eyes (covetousness and lustful looking), and the pride of life (arrogance and self-glory). These desires are not from the Father, but originate from the world.

(1 John 2:17) 
And the world, with all its fleeting glory and sinful desires, is passing away. But whoever does the will of God remains eternally, possessing true and lasting life.

(1 John 2:18) 
Dear children, it is the final hour of this present age, the time between Christ's first and second comings. And just as you heard that *the* Antichrist, the ultimate adversary of Christ, is coming, even now many antichrists—those who oppose Christ—have appeared. From this fact, we know that it is the final hour.

(1 John 2:19) 
These antichrists went out from among us, meaning they were once part of the Christian community, but they were not truly of us in genuine faith. For if they had been truly of us, they would have remained with us. But they left so that it might be made manifest and clear that they are not truly of us.

(1 John 2:20) 
But you, believers, have an anointing from the Holy One—that is, from Christ or through the Holy Spirit—and you know all necessary truths for salvation and discernment.

(1 John 2:21) 
I have not written to you as if you are ignorant of the truth, but as those who already know it. And I write because it is clear that no lie can ever come from the truth; they are fundamentally opposed.

(1 John 2:22) 
Who is the liar, if not he who denies that Jesus is the Christ, the Anointed Messiah? This person is an antichrist, one who denies the Father and the Son, thereby rejecting the very nature of God and salvation.

(1 John 2:23) 
Everyone who denies the Son does not also have the Father; you cannot truly know or relate to God the Father without accepting Jesus as His Son. And whoever confesses the Son also has the Father.

(1 John 2:24) 
Therefore, let what you heard from the beginning, the foundational teachings of the faith, remain firmly established in you. If what you heard from the beginning remains in you, then you also will remain in the Son and in the Father, experiencing intimate communion with the Trinity.

(1 John 2:25) 
And this is the promise which He Himself promised to us, the ultimate gift of eternal life.

(1 John 2:26) 
I have written these things to you concerning those who are trying to lead you astray with false teachings.

(1 John 2:27) 
But as for you, the anointing which you received from Him (the indwelling Holy Spirit) let it remain in you. And you do not necessarily need anyone to teach you *everything* in the way of ultimate truth, but just as His anointing teaches you about all things pertaining to salvation and discernment—and this teaching is true and is not a lie—just as it has taught you, abide in Him, remaining steadfast in Christ.

(1 John 2:28) 
And now, dear children, abide in Him, remain firmly united to Christ. Do this so that when He appears in His glorious Second Coming, we may have confidence and not be put to shame or shrink away from Him at His arrival.

(1 John 2:29) 
If you know that He, God Himself, is just and righteous, then know also that everyone who practices righteousness, living in a way that aligns with God's justice, is born of Him, having received a new spiritual birth.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:1) 
Consider what great love the Father has bestowed upon us, that we should be called children of God, and truly are His children! Because of this spiritual reality, the world does not understand us, because it never truly understood God the Father or His Son, Jesus Christ.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:2) 
Beloved brothers and sisters, we are already children of God right now! Yet, it has not yet been fully revealed what our glorified state will be. But we do know this: when He—Jesus Christ—appears again in glory, we shall be made like Him, for we shall see Him as He truly is.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:3) 
And everyone who cherishes this hope in Him—in Jesus Christ and His glorious return—purifies himself, just as Christ Himself is perfectly pure.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:4) 
Everyone who commits sin also breaks God’s law, and sin, by its very nature, is a transgression of that divine law.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:5) 
And you know that Jesus Christ appeared to take away our sins, and there is absolutely no sin found in Him.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:6) 
Everyone who truly abides in Him—in Christ—does not continue to live in sin. And everyone who habitually sins has not genuinely seen Him nor truly known Him in a saving way.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:7) 
My dear children, do not let anyone deceive you about this: the one who practices righteousness and lives according to God’s law is righteous, just as Jesus Christ Himself is righteous.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:8) 
The one who habitually practices sin belongs to the devil, because the devil has been sinning since the very beginning of creation. It was for this specific reason that God the Son appeared: to undo and destroy the works of the devil.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:9) 
No one who has been truly born of God continually practices sin, because God's divine life, like a spiritual seed, remains within him. And such a person cannot habitually sin as a lifestyle, because he has been born of God and has a new spiritual nature.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:10) 
By this clear distinction, the children of God and the children of the devil are made evident. Everyone who does not practice righteousness is not from God. And likewise, anyone who does not love his Christian brother or sister is not from God.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:11) 
For this is the fundamental message that you have heard from the very beginning of your Christian faith: that we should love one another.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:12) 
Do not be like Cain, who was spiritually aligned with the evil one, and murdered his own brother. And why did he murder him? Because Cain’s own deeds were wicked, while his brother Abel’s deeds were righteous in God's sight.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:13) 
Therefore, do not be surprised, my brothers and sisters, if the ungodly world hates you.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:14) 
We, the faithful, know with certainty that we have passed from spiritual death into spiritual life, because we love our Christian brothers and sisters. The one who does not love remains spiritually dead.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:15) 
Everyone who hates his Christian brother or sister is, in God’s sight, a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding within himself.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:16) 
By this supreme act, we have come to understand the depth of God’s love: that He—Jesus Christ—laid down His own life for us. Therefore, we also ought to be willing to lay down our lives for our brothers and sisters in Christ.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:17) 
But if someone possesses the material resources of this world, and sees his Christian brother or sister in need, yet closes his heart and refuses to help him, how can the love of God truly abide in that person?

(1 John 3:1 John 3:18) 
My dear children, let us not love merely in word or with empty talk, but genuinely, through our actions and with sincere truth.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:19) 
By this practical love, we know that we are truly from the truth, and thus we can reassure our hearts before God.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:20) 
Because even if our own conscience condemns us, remember that God is greater than our heart and knows all things, including our intentions and efforts, offering mercy.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:21) 
Beloved brothers and sisters, if our heart does not condemn us, then we have confident assurance before God.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:22) 
And whatever we ask, we receive from Him, because we diligently keep His commandments and do those things that are pleasing in His sight.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:23) 
And this is His foundational commandment: that we believe in the saving name of His Son, Jesus Christ, and that we love one another, just as He commanded us to do.

(1 John 3:1 John 3:24) 
And the one who keeps His commandments remains in God, and God remains in him. And by this we know that God remains in us: by the Holy Spirit whom He has given to us.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:1) 
My dearest brothers and sisters, do not believe every spiritual influence or teaching you encounter, but instead discern whether these spirits and their teachings are truly from God. Many false prophets have emerged and spread throughout the world.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:2) 
This is how you can recognize the true Spirit of God: every spiritual teaching that acknowledges Jesus Christ has come into the world as a fully human being, with a real body, truly originates from God.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:3) 
And any spiritual teaching that denies the truth about Jesus Christ—specifically that He is truly human and truly divine—does not originate from God. This is the spirit of the antichrist, which you have been warned would come, and indeed, it is already at work in the world today.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:4) 
My dear little children, you are from God and have already defeated the spirit of the antichrist and the world's false teachings. This is because the Holy Spirit who lives within you is infinitely greater than the evil spirit who dominates this world.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:5) 
Those false prophets and their teachings originate from the world itself. Therefore, their messages are worldly in nature, and the worldly people readily accept and listen to them.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:6) 
We, the true apostles and teachers, are from God. Anyone who truly knows and loves God listens to and accepts our teachings. Anyone who is not from God does not listen to us. This is the clear way we distinguish the Spirit of truth from the spirit of error.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:7) 
My dearest brothers and sisters, let us continually love one another, because true, self-sacrificing love originates directly from God. Every person who genuinely loves in this way has been spiritually reborn by God and truly knows Him.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:8) 
Anyone who does not practice this kind of love does not truly know God, for the very essence and nature of God is love itself.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:9) 
In this one supreme act, the immense love of God was made manifest to us: God sent His only-begotten Son into the world, not just for a visit, but so that we might gain spiritual and eternal life through Him.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:10) 
Real love is found in this: it was not that we first loved God, but rather that He loved us first. And because of this profound love, He sent His Son as the atoning sacrifice for our sins, to appease His righteous anger and reconcile us to Himself.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:11) 
My dearest brothers and sisters, if God has loved us with such immense love, then we, too, are obligated to love one another in the same sacrificial way.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:12) 
No human being has ever seen God with their physical eyes. However, if we consistently love one another, then God dwells within us, and His love, fully actualized and made complete, is perfected in us through our actions.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:13) 
This is how we come to know with certainty that we remain united with God, and that He remains united with us: because He has graciously given us His Holy Spirit.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:14) 
And we, the apostles, have personally seen Him and bear witness to the truth that God the Father sent His Son as the one and only Savior of the entire world.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:15) 
Whoever openly declares and believes that Jesus is the Son of God, truly has God dwelling within them, and they, in turn, dwell in God.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:16) 
And we ourselves have come to know, through experience and faith, the profound love that God has for us. God Himself is love. Therefore, anyone who lives and remains in this true love also lives and remains in God, and God lives and remains in them.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:17) 
In this way, God's love is made perfect and complete in us: we can have unwavering confidence on the Day of Judgment. This is because, as Jesus Christ is in His divine and human nature, so also are we, through Him, made to be in this world—righteous and beloved by God.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:18) 
There is no room for cringing fear in divine love. Instead, perfect and mature love expels all such fear, because fear inherently involves the expectation of punishment. Anyone who still lives in this kind of fear has not yet been made perfect and complete in their understanding and practice of divine love.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:19) 
Therefore, let us eagerly love God, because He first loved us with an initiating and boundless love.

(1 John 4:1 John 4:20) 
If someone claims, "I love God," yet at the same time harbors hatred for his brother or sister in Christ, that person is a liar. For how can anyone truly love God, whom they have not seen, if they do not love their brother or sister, whom they have seen and interact with daily?

(1 John 4:1 John 4:21) 
And indeed, this is the explicit commandment we have received from God Himself: that whoever loves God must also love his brother or sister in Christ.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:1) 
Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Anointed One, the Christ, has been spiritually born of God. And everyone who loves the Father, who is the source of this new birth, also loves all others who are born of Him.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:2) 
By this sign we know that we truly love the children of God: when we love God ourselves and obey His commandments.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:3) 
For this is the love of God: that we keep His commandments. And His commandments are not burdensome or impossible to keep.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:4) 
For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that conquers the world: our faith in Jesus Christ.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:5) 
Who is it, then, who overcomes the world? It is only the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God, truly God from God.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:6) 
This is Jesus Christ, who came to us through the waters of Baptism and the shedding of His blood on the Cross. He did not come to us by water alone, but by water and blood together. And it is the Holy Spirit who bears witness that Christ is the Truth Himself.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:7) 
For there are three witnesses who bear testimony in Heaven: the Father, God the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And these three are one in their divine essence and nature.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:8) 
And there are three witnesses who bear testimony on earth: the Holy Spirit, the water of Baptism, and the blood of the Eucharist and His Passion. And these three also bear a unified witness.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:9) 
If we accept the testimony of men in earthly courts, the testimony of God is far greater and more authoritative. For this is God’s testimony, which is the greater, because He Himself has borne witness concerning His Son.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:10) 
Whoever believes in God the Son carries the testimony of God within himself, imprinted upon his soul. Whoever does not believe in God the Son makes God out to be a liar and rejects His divine truth, because he does not believe the testimony that God Himself has borne concerning His Son.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:11) 
And this is the central truth of that testimony: that God has given us eternal life, and this eternal life is found fully in His Son.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:12) 
Whoever possesses God the Son, through faith and grace, also possesses this eternal life. Whoever does not possess God the Son does not have this eternal life, for it can only be found in Him.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:13) 
I am writing these things to you so that you may know with certainty that you possess eternal life, you who believe in the Name of God the Son, which is Jesus Christ.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:14) 
And this is the confident assurance that we have in Him, God Himself: that if we ask anything according to His divine will, He hears and grants our prayer.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:15) 
And since we know that He hears us in whatever we ask in accordance with His will, we also know that we have already been granted the petitions we have asked from Him.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:16) 
If anyone sees his brother committing a sin that does not lead to spiritual death, he should pray for him, and God will grant life to that sinner who has not sinned unto death. There is, however, a sin that leads to spiritual death, a mortal sin. I do not say that one should pray for that kind of sin in the same way, as it requires deeper repentance.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:17) 
Every unrighteous act is a sin against God. But there is a specific type of sin that leads to spiritual death, a mortal sin.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:18) 
We know that everyone who has been born of God does not habitually or mortally sin, for the Son of God Himself, being truly born of God, keeps Himself free from sin, and the Evil One cannot grasp Him.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:19) 
We know that we are truly from God, yet the whole world around us lies under the power and influence of the Evil One.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:20) 
And we know with certainty that God the Son has come into the world, and He has given us the spiritual understanding to know the true God, so that we may truly be united with His true Son, Jesus Christ. This Jesus Christ is the true God, and He is eternal life itself.

(1 John 5:1 John 5:21) 
Little children, guard yourselves from idols and false gods. Amen.

(2 John 1:1) 
The Elder writes this letter to the chosen Lady and her children, whom I love in truth—and not only I, but also all those who have come to know the truth of Christ.

(2 John 1:2) 
This is because the truth of Christ dwells in us, and will be with us eternally.

(2 John 1:3) 
May grace, mercy, and peace be with you from God the Father, and from Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and in love.

(2 John 1:4) 
I rejoiced greatly when I found some of your children living according to the truth, just as we received a commandment to do from God the Father.

(2 John 1:5) 
And now I ask you, Lady, not as though I am writing a new commandment for you, but that which we have had from the very beginning: that we love one another.

(2 John 1:6) 
And this is true love: that we live according to His commandments. This is the commandment that you have heard from the beginning of your faith: that you should live by it.

(2 John 1:7) 
Because many deceivers have gone out into the world, who do not confess that Jesus Christ has truly come in human flesh. Such a person is a deceiver and an antichrist, denying the reality of the Incarnation.

(2 John 1:8) 
Watch yourselves carefully, so that you do not lose the spiritual fruits you have worked for. Instead, remain faithful, so that you may receive a full and complete reward.

(2 John 1:9) 
Everyone who goes astray and does not remain in the true teaching of Christ does not have God with them. But whoever remains in the true doctrine of Christ, that person has both God the Father and God the Son.

(2 John 1:10) 
If anyone comes to you and does not bring this true doctrine of Christ, do not receive him into your house, nor offer him any greeting of welcome, for that would be to share in his evil work.

(2 John 1:11) 
For anyone who offers him a greeting of welcome, thereby shares in his evil works and aids his mission.

(2 John 1:12) 
Although I have many more things to write to you, I did not wish to communicate them through paper and ink. For I hope to be with you soon, and to speak to you face to face, so that our joy may be full.

(2 John 1:13) 
The children of your chosen sister send their greetings. Amen.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:1) 
The Elder writes this letter to Gaius, my dearest spiritual child, whom I love in the fullness of the Truth.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:2) 
My dearest, I always pray for your complete well-being, that you may prosper in every aspect of your life and be in good health, just as your soul prospers in grace.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:3) 
I was overjoyed when our brothers in Christ came and bore witness to the fidelity of your life to the Truth, confirming that you indeed live according to the Truth of the Gospel.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:4) 
I have no greater spiritual joy than to hear that my spiritual children are living faithfully according to the Truth.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:5) 
My dearest, you act with true fidelity in everything you do for our fellow Christians, and especially for those who are traveling missionaries.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:6) 
These very brothers have given public testimony to your selfless charity before the entire Church. You will do a good work to send them forth on their journey in a manner truly worthy of God's holy service.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:7) 
For they have gone forth on their mission for the sake of His holy Name, relying only on the faithful, accepting no material support from those who are not believers in Christ.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:8) 
Therefore, we who believe ought to provide for and welcome such faithful missionaries, so that by our support, we may become their fellow laborers in the mission of the Truth.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:9) 
I also wrote a letter to the Church there; however, Diotrephes, who loves to be the supreme authority among them, openly rejects our apostolic authority and guidance.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:10) 
Because of this open defiance, if I come to visit, I will call attention to his wicked deeds: how he spreads malicious gossip against us with his words. And not content with merely doing this, he himself refuses to welcome the faithful traveling missionaries. Furthermore, he forbids those who desire to welcome them, and even casts them out of the Church community.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:11) 
My dearest, do not imitate what is evil, but rather embrace what is truly good. He who consistently does good and acts righteously is a child of God. But he who consistently does evil and acts wrongly has not truly known God.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:12) 
Regarding Demetrius, everyone speaks well of him, and his very life itself gives testimony to the Truth. We also bear our own witness to him, and you know well that our testimony concerning him is undeniably true.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:13) 
I had many more things to communicate to you, but I chose not to commit them to writing with mere ink and pen.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:14) 
Instead, I eagerly hope to see you very soon, so that we may speak to one another face to face. May peace be with you always.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:15) 
All the faithful here send their greetings to you. Please, in turn, greet all our beloved friends in the faith there, personally by name.

(Jude 1:1) 
Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, writes to those who are loved by God the Father, kept safe in Jesus Christ, and called to His purpose.

(Jude 1:2) 
May mercy, peace, and divine love be abundantly multiplied to you.

(Jude 1:3) 
Beloved, I was diligently preparing to write to you about our common salvation, but I felt it was necessary to write and urge you to contend earnestly for the faith which was once and for all delivered to the saints.

(Jude 1:4) 
For certain godless men have secretly slipped in among you—men long ago marked out for this condemnation—who pervert the grace of our God into licentiousness, denying our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ.

(Jude 1:5) 
Now I want to remind you, even though you once understood all these things, that the Lord, after saving His people out of the land of Egypt, afterwards destroyed those who did not believe.

(Jude 1:6) 
And the angels who did not keep their proper domain but abandoned their own dwelling place, He has kept in eternal chains under darkness for the judgment of the great day.

(Jude 1:7) 
Just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities, in a similar manner, indulged in gross sexual immorality and went after unnatural lust, they serve as an example, undergoing the punishment of eternal fire.

(Jude 1:8) 
Likewise, these dreamers—the false teachers—defile the flesh, reject authority, and blaspheme the divine majesty of God and His angels.

(Jude 1:9) 
Yet Archangel Michael, when contending with the devil and disputing about the body of Moses, did not dare to pronounce a reviling judgment against him, but simply said, "The Lord rebuke you!"

(Jude 1:10) 
But these men blaspheme all that they do not understand, and what they know instinctively by natural instinct, like unreasoning animals, these things only corrupt them.

(Jude 1:11) 
Woe to them! For they have walked in the path of Cain, and for profit they have plunged headlong into the error of Balaam, and they have perished in the rebellion of Korah.

(Jude 1:12) 
These men are hidden reefs and blemishes at your sacred love feasts, feasting with you without fear, caring only for themselves. They are like clouds without water, carried along by winds; they are autumn trees without fruit, twice dead and completely uprooted.

(Jude 1:13) 
They are like wild waves of the sea, foaming up their own shame; they are wandering stars for whom the blackest darkness has been reserved forever.

(Jude 1:14) 
It was also about these very men that Enoch, the seventh in line from Adam, prophesied, saying, "Behold, the Lord comes with tens of thousands of His holy ones, the angels and saints, to execute judgment,"

(Jude 1:15) 
...to execute judgment on all, and to convict all the ungodly of their ungodly acts which they have committed in an ungodly way, and of all the harsh words which ungodly sinners have spoken against God.

(Jude 1:16) 
These men are grumblers, faultfinders, following their own evil desires. Their mouths utter arrogant boasts, and they flatter people for the sake of personal gain.

(Jude 1:17) 
But you, beloved, remember the words which were spoken beforehand by the Apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ.

(Jude 1:18) 
For they used to say to you that in the last times there will be scoffers, who will walk according to their own ungodly desires.

(Jude 1:19) 
These are the ones who cause divisions and separate themselves, being merely natural men, not possessing the Holy Spirit.

(Jude 1:20) 
But you, beloved, build yourselves up on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit.

(Jude 1:21) 
Keep yourselves in the love of God, awaiting the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ which leads to eternal life.

(Jude 1:22) 
And for some, those who are already clearly in error, bring them to account and reprove them sharply;

(Jude 1:23) 
...but others, snatch out of the fire and save them; and on others, have mercy, but with caution, hating even the clothes that have been stained by their sinful flesh.

(Jude 1:24) 
Now to Him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless, with exceeding joy, before the presence of His glory—

(Jude 1:25) 
...to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and power, before all time, now, and for all ages. Amen.

(Revelation 1:1) 
This is the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God the Father gave to God the Son, so that He could make known to His servants what must quickly happen. And God the Son made it known by sending His Angel to His servant John.

(Revelation 1:2) 
John bore witness to the Word of God—the Son, Jesus Christ—and to everything he saw.

(Revelation 1:3) 
Blessed is he who reads, and those who hear the words of this prophecy, and who keep the things written in it. For the time is near for these things to unfold.

(Revelation 1:4) 
John writes to the seven churches that are in Asia. May grace and peace be with you from Him who is, and who was, and who is to come—the Eternal Father, and from the seven Spirits who are before His throne.

(Revelation 1:5) 
And may grace and peace be with you from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful Witness, the firstborn from the dead, and the Prince of the kings of the earth. He loved us and washed us from our sins in His own Blood.

(Revelation 1:6) 
And He made us a kingdom of priests for God, His Father. To Him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen.

(Revelation 1:7) 
Behold, He comes with the clouds, and every eye will see Him—even those who pierced Him. All the tribes of the earth will mourn over Him. Yes, truly, Amen.

(Revelation 1:8) 
"I am the Alpha and the Omega," says the Lord God, "the Beginning and the End—the One who is, and who was, and who is to come—the Almighty."

(Revelation 1:9) 
I, John, your brother and companion in the tribulation, and in the kingdom, and in the patient endurance of Jesus Christ, was on the island called Patmos because of the Word of God—the Son, and because of the testimony of Jesus Christ.

(Revelation 1:10) 
I was in the Spirit on the Lord's Day, and I heard behind me a loud voice, like the sound of a trumpet.

(Revelation 1:11) 
The voice said: "Write what you see in a book, and send it to the seven churches that are in Asia: to Ephesus, and to Smyrna, and to Pergamum, and to Thyatira, and to Sardis, and to Philadelphia, and to Laodicea."

(Revelation 1:12) 
I turned to see the voice that was speaking with me. And having turned, I saw seven golden lampstands.

(Revelation 1:13) 
And in the midst of the seven golden lampstands, I saw one like the Son of Man, clothed with a garment reaching to His feet, and girded at the chest with a golden sash.

(Revelation 1:14) 
His head and His hair were white, like white wool or like snow, and His eyes were like a flame of fire.

(Revelation 1:15) 
His feet were like fine brass, as if refined in a furnace, and His voice was like the sound of many waters—a mighty roar.

(Revelation 1:16) 
He held seven stars in His right hand. From His mouth came a sharp, two-edged sword, and His face shone like the sun in its full strength.

(Revelation 1:17) 
When I saw Him, I fell at His feet as though dead. But He laid His right hand upon me, saying: "Do not be afraid. I am the First and the Last."

(Revelation 1:18) 
"I am the Living One. I was dead, and behold, I am alive forever and ever. I hold the keys of death and of hell."

(Revelation 1:19) 
"Therefore, write the things which you have seen, and the things which are, and the things which will take place after these."

(Revelation 1:20) 
"The mystery of the seven stars which you saw in My right hand, and the seven golden lampstands is this: the seven stars are the Angels—the spiritual guardians—of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven Churches themselves."

(Revelation 2:2:1) 
Write to the angel of the Church at Ephesus. Here are the words of the One who holds the seven stars in His right hand—the One who walks among the seven golden lampstands, which are the seven Churches.

(Revelation 2:2:2) 
I know all that you do. I know your hard work and your patient endurance. And I know that you cannot tolerate evil people. You have tested those who falsely claim to be apostles but are not, and you have found them to be liars.

(Revelation 2:2:3) 
You have also persevered patiently, and you have endured hardship for My Name’s sake without growing weary or giving up.

(Revelation 2:2:4) 
Yet, I have a few things against you: you have abandoned the fervent love you had for Me at first.

(Revelation 2:2:5) 
Remember the spiritual heights from which you have fallen. Repent and return to doing the good works you did at the beginning of your faith. If you do not repent and change your ways, I will come to you swiftly and remove your lampstand from its place, meaning your Church itself could lose its existence or purpose.

(Revelation 2:2:6) 
But I do commend you for this: you utterly hate the deeds of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.

(Revelation 2:2:7) 
Let anyone who has ears to hear understand what the Holy Spirit is saying to all the Churches. To the one who overcomes and remains faithful, I will grant the right to eat from the Tree of Life, which is in the paradise of My God.

(Revelation 2:2:8) 
And to the angel of the Church at Smyrna, write these words: Here are the words of the First and the Last, who was dead and now lives.

(Revelation 2:2:9) 
I know your suffering and persecution, and I know your material poverty. But you are spiritually rich. I also know the slander and blasphemies from those who claim to be Jews but are not truly God’s people. Instead, they are a synagogue of Satan.

(Revelation 2:2:10) 
Do not be afraid of any of the suffering you are about to face. Listen! The devil is about to throw some of you into prison so that you may be tested and tried. And you will suffer for a limited period of ten days. Remain faithful and steadfast, even to the point of death, and I will give you the crown of eternal life.

(Revelation 2:2:11) 
Let anyone who has ears to hear understand what the Holy Spirit is saying to all the Churches. The one who overcomes and remains faithful will not be harmed by the second death.

(Revelation 2:2:12) 
And to the angel of the Church at Pergamum, write these words: Here are the words of the One who has the sharp, two-edged sword.

(Revelation 2:2:13) 
I know where you live, in the very city where Satan’s throne is located. Yet, you hold fast to My Name and have not denied your faith in Me. Even in those difficult days, when Antipas, My faithful witness, was martyred among you, right there where Satan dwells.

(Revelation 2:2:14) 
Nevertheless, I have a few things against you: You tolerate some among you who cling to the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to entice the Israelites into sin by eating food sacrificed to idols and by committing sexual immorality.

(Revelation 2:2:15) 
Similarly, you also have those who cling to the teaching of the Nicolaitans.

(Revelation 2:2:16) 
Therefore, repent of these things and change your ways. Otherwise, I will come to you quickly and I will wage war against them with the sword of My mouth.

(Revelation 2:2:17) 
Let anyone who has ears to hear understand what the Holy Spirit is saying to all the Churches. To the one who overcomes and remains faithful, I will give some of the hidden manna to eat, symbolizing spiritual nourishment and eternal life. I will also give that person a white stone, a symbol of acquittal and honor, and on that stone, a new name will be written, which no one knows except the one who receives it, signifying a unique relationship with Me.

(Revelation 2:2:18) 
And to the angel of the Church at Thyatira, write these words: Here are the words of the Son of God, who has eyes like a blazing fire and whose feet are like polished bronze, glowing as if refined in a furnace.

(Revelation 2:2:19) 
I know all that you do. I know your faith, your love, your service to others, and your patient endurance. Indeed, your more recent works are even greater than those you did at first.

(Revelation 2:2:20) 
Yet, I have a few things against you: You tolerate that woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess, and through her teaching, she misleads My servants into committing sexual immorality and eating food sacrificed to idols.

(Revelation 2:2:21) 
I gave her time to repent and change her ways, but she refuses to repent of her immoral behavior.

(Revelation 2:2:22) 
Listen! I will cast her onto a bed of suffering and sickness. And those who commit adultery with her will be plunged into intense suffering and great tribulation, unless they repent of the evil works they learned from her.

(Revelation 2:2:23) 
I will also strike her followers with death. Then all the Churches will know that I am the One who searches the innermost thoughts and desires, as well as the intentions of the heart. And I will give to each one of you exactly what your works deserve.

(Revelation 2:2:24) 
But to the rest of you in Thyatira, to all who do not hold to this false teaching, and who have not learned what some call the 'deep secrets' of Satan—I tell you: I will not lay any other burden upon you.

(Revelation 2:2:25) 
Only hold firmly to the truth you already have until I come again.

(Revelation 2:2:26) 
To the one who overcomes and remains faithful to My works until the very end, I will give that person authority over the nations.

(Revelation 2:2:27) 
That person will rule them with a rod of iron, and they will be shattered like earthenware vessels.

(Revelation 2:2:28) 
—just as I Myself have received this authority from My Father. And I will also give that person the Morning Star, which is Myself, symbolizing a share in My glory and rule.

(Revelation 2:2:29) 
Let anyone who has ears to hear understand what the Holy Spirit is saying to all the Churches.

(Revelation 3:3:1) 
And to the bishop of the Church in Sardis, write these words: 'These are the words of Him who possesses the seven Spirits of God—that is, the Holy Spirit in all His fullness—and the seven stars, who are the bishops of the Churches. I know all your deeds. You have the reputation among men of being spiritually alive, but in reality, you are spiritually dead.'

(Revelation 3:3:2) 
'Wake up and be watchful! And strengthen the remaining good that is still alive within you, for it is on the verge of dying completely. For I have not found your deeds to be complete or perfect in the eyes of My God.'

(Revelation 3:3:3) 
'Therefore, remember the pure teaching you received from the Apostles and how you first heard it. Hold fast to it, and repent of your spiritual slumber. If you do not wake up and remain watchful, I will come upon you suddenly, like a thief in the night, and you will not know the hour of My coming to judge you.'

(Revelation 3:3:4) 
'But there are a few people in Sardis who have not stained their garments with sin. These few will walk with Me in white robes, for they are worthy of this honor, having kept their purity.'

(Revelation 3:3:5) 
'The one who overcomes these spiritual trials will similarly be clothed in white garments, signifying their purity and victory. I will certainly not erase their name from the Book of Life, which records those who are destined for eternal salvation. And I will publicly acknowledge and declare their name before My Father and before His holy angels.'

(Revelation 3:3:6) 
'He who has an ear, let him understand and pay close attention to what the Holy Spirit is saying to all the Churches.'

(Revelation 3:3:7) 
And to the bishop of the Church in Philadelphia, write these words: 'These are the words of the Holy One, who is absolutely true, and who holds the key of David—the ultimate authority over the Kingdom of God, the Church. What He opens, no one can shut; and what He shuts, no one can open, for He has absolute power over all things.'

(Revelation 3:3:8) 
'I know all your deeds. Behold, I have placed before you an open door for ministry and evangelism, and no one has the power to shut it. I have done this because you possess little worldly strength, yet you have kept My word faithfully and have never denied My name.'

(Revelation 3:3:9) 
'Behold, I will deliver into your hands those from the synagogue of Satan—those who falsely claim to be true Jews, God's chosen people, but are liars. Behold, I will make them come and prostrate themselves before your feet, showing their submission to you. This will happen so that they will know that I, Jesus Christ, have truly loved you.'

(Revelation 3:3:10) 
'Because you have faithfully kept My command to endure with patience, I, in turn, will keep you safe during the coming hour of temptation—a time of severe trial which is about to come upon the entire world to test all who dwell on the earth.'

(Revelation 3:3:11) 
'Behold, I am coming soon! Hold fast to the faith and good works you possess, so that no one may take away the crown of eternal life and glory that awaits you.'

(Revelation 3:3:12) 
'The one who overcomes will I make a steadfast pillar in the eternal temple of My God, and they shall never again have to leave it. I will inscribe upon them the very name of My God, and the name of the city of My God—the New Jerusalem, which descends from the sky, from My God Himself—and also My own new name. This signifies their permanent place, their divine ownership, and their intimate communion.'

(Revelation 3:3:13) 
'He who has an ear, let him understand and pay close attention to what the Holy Spirit is saying to all the Churches.'

(Revelation 3:3:14) 
And to the bishop of the Church in Laodicea, write these words: 'These are the words of the Amen—that is, the Divine Truth Himself—the faithful and true witness to God's plan, who is the source and ruler of all God's creation, not a created being Himself.'

(Revelation 3:3:15) 
'I know all your deeds, and you are neither spiritually cold nor spiritually hot. Oh, how I wish you were either truly cold, openly rejecting Me, or truly hot, fervently zealous for Me!'

(Revelation 3:3:16) 
'But because you are lukewarm—neither truly cold nor truly hot—just like the nauseating, tepid water, I am about to spit you out of My mouth.'

(Revelation 3:3:17) 
'Because you boastfully declare, "I am rich and have acquired great wealth, and I am in need of nothing!"—yet you do not realize that in My sight, you are truly wretched, pitiable, spiritually poor, blind to truth, and naked of spiritual virtue.'

(Revelation 3:3:18) 
'Therefore, I advise you to come and 'buy' from Me gold purified by fire, so that you may become truly rich in faith and good works. Also, 'buy' white garments from Me, so that you may clothe yourself and cover the shameful nakedness of your sins. And 'buy' eye salve from Me, to anoint your eyes so that you may regain your spiritual sight and truly understand.'

(Revelation 3:3:19) 
'All those whom I truly love, I rebuke and discipline for their own good. Therefore, be zealous in your faith and promptly repent of your lukewarmness.'

(Revelation 3:3:20) 
'Behold, I stand at the door of your heart and knock. If anyone hears My voice and opens the door to Me, I will come in to them, and I will share a meal with them in intimate communion, and they with Me.'

(Revelation 3:3:21) 
'The one who overcomes will I grant the privilege to sit with Me on My throne, sharing in My royal authority—just as I Myself overcame the world and then sat down with My Father on His throne.'

(Revelation 3:3:22) 
'He who has an ear, let him understand and pay close attention to what the Holy Spirit is saying to all the Churches.'

(Revelation 4:Revelation 4:1) 
After these events, I looked, and behold, a door stood open in Heaven. Then I heard the first voice I had heard before—a voice like a trumpet speaking to me. It said, "Come up here! And I will show you what must happen after these things."

(Revelation 4:Revelation 4:2) 
Immediately, I was transported in spirit, and behold, there was a throne set in Heaven, and upon the throne, Someone was seated.

(Revelation 4:Revelation 4:3) 
The One seated there looked like jasper and sardine stones. And around the throne, there was a rainbow, looking like an emerald.

(Revelation 4:Revelation 4:4) 
Around that throne were twenty-four smaller thrones, and on these twenty-four thrones sat twenty-four elders. They were clothed in white robes, and on their heads were crowns of gold.

(Revelation 4:Revelation 4:5) 
From the throne came flashes of lightning, voices, and peals of thunder. And seven burning lamps were before the throne, which represent the seven Spirits of God—the fullness of the Holy Spirit.

(Revelation 4:Revelation 4:6) 
And before the throne was what looked like a sea of glass, clear as crystal. And in the center of the throne, and around the throne, were four living creatures, full of eyes in front and behind.

(Revelation 4:Revelation 4:7) 
The first living creature was like a lion. The second living creature was like a young bull. The third living creature had a face like that of a man. And the fourth living creature was like an eagle in flight.

(Revelation 4:Revelation 4:8) 
Each of the four living creatures had six wings. They were full of eyes all around and within. They never ceased, day or night, saying: "Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God Almighty, He who was, and who is, and who is to come."

(Revelation 4:Revelation 4:9) 
And whenever those living creatures gave glory, and honor, and blessing to the One seated on the throne—to Him who lives for all ages, forever and ever—

(Revelation 4:Revelation 4:10) 
the twenty-four elders would fall down before the One seated on the throne and worship Him who lives for all ages, forever and ever, and cast their crowns before the throne, declaring:

(Revelation 4:Revelation 4:11) 
"You are worthy, Our Lord and Our God, to receive glory, and honor, and power. Because You created all things, and by Your will, they existed and were created."

(Revelation 5:1) 
And I saw in the right hand of Him who sat upon the throne a scroll. This scroll was written on both its inner and outer surfaces, and it was sealed with seven seals.

(Revelation 5:2) 
And I saw a mighty angel. He was proclaiming with a loud voice, "Who is worthy to open this scroll and break its seals?"

(Revelation 5:3) 
And no one in the universe, nor on the earth, nor in the underworld, was able to open the scroll or even to look at it.

(Revelation 5:4) 
And I began to weep profusely because no one was found worthy to open the scroll or even to examine it.

(Revelation 5:5) 
And one of the elders said to me, "Do not weep. Behold, the Lion from the tribe of Judah—the promised descendant of David who is the Root and source of David's royal line—He has conquered. He is worthy to open the scroll and to break its seven seals."

(Revelation 5:6) 
And I looked, and behold, in the center, between the throne and the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders, stood a Lamb. This Lamb appeared as if it had been slain, bearing the marks of sacrifice. He had seven horns and seven eyes, which represent the seven Spirits of God sent throughout the entire earth.

(Revelation 5:7) 
And the Lamb came and took the scroll from the right hand of Him who sat upon the throne.

(Revelation 5:8) 
And when the Lamb was about to open the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before Him. Each of them had a harp and a golden bowl full of incense; these bowls contain the prayers of the saints.

(Revelation 5:9) 
And they sang a new song, declaring, "You are worthy, O Lord, to receive the scroll and to open its seals. For you were slain, and by your precious blood, you have ransomed us for God—rescuing people from every tribe, language, nation, and people group."

(Revelation 5:10) 
You have made us into a kingdom and priests for our God, and we shall reign over the earth.

(Revelation 5:11) 
And I looked, and I heard the voice of many angels encircling the throne, the living creatures, and the elders. Their number was countless—millions upon millions.

(Revelation 5:12) 
They were saying with a loud voice, "The Lamb who was slain is worthy to receive all power, and divine authority, and perfect wisdom, and immense strength, and honor, and glory, and blessing!"

(Revelation 5:13) 
And I heard every creature in the entire universe—those in the sky, and on the earth, and under the earth, and in the sea—every single one of them, saying: "To Him who sits upon the throne, and to the Lamb, be blessing, and honor, and glory, and dominion forever and ever!"

(Revelation 5:14) 
And the four living creatures were saying, "Amen!" And the twenty-four elders fell down on their faces and adored Him who lives forever and ever.

(Revelation 6:1) 
And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures speak with a voice like thunder, saying: “Come, and see.”

(Revelation 6:2) 
And I looked, and behold, a white horse appeared. He who sat on it had a bow, and a crown was given to him. He went forth conquering, and to conquer all things.

(Revelation 6:3) 
And when He had opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature say: “Come, and see.”

(Revelation 6:4) 
And another horse went out, a red one. It was given to him who sat on it to take peace from the earth, so that people would kill one another. A great sword was also given to him.

(Revelation 6:5) 
And when He had opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature say: “Come, and see.” And behold, a black horse appeared, and he who sat on it had a balance in his hand.

(Revelation 6:6) 
And I heard a voice, as it were, from the midst of the four living creatures, saying: “A measure of wheat will cost a denarius, and three measures of barley will cost a denarius, but do not harm the wine and the oil.”

(Revelation 6:7) 
And when He had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature say: “Come, and see.”

(Revelation 6:8) 
And behold, a pale horse appeared, and he who sat upon it was named Death, and the realm of the dead followed closely with him. Power was given to him over a fourth part of the earth, to kill by the sword, and by famine, and by plagues, and by the wild beasts of the earth.

(Revelation 6:9) 
And when He had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain because of the word of God and because of the testimony of faith they had always held.

(Revelation 6:10) 
And they cried out with a loud voice, saying: “How long, O holy and true Lord, will You not judge and avenge our blood on those who live on the earth?”

(Revelation 6:11) 
And white robes were given to each of them, and they were told that they should rest for a little while longer, until the full number of their fellow servants and their brethren are complete—those who are also to be killed, just as they were.

(Revelation 6:12) 
And I saw when He had opened the sixth seal, and behold, a great earthquake happened, and the sun became black like sackcloth made of hair, and the entire moon became like blood.

(Revelation 6:13) 
And the stars from the sky fell upon the earth, just as a fig tree casts its unripe figs when it is shaken by a great wind.

(Revelation 6:14) 
And the sky receded like a scroll being rolled up, and every mountain and island was moved out of its place.

(Revelation 6:15) 
And the kings of the earth, and the princes, and the military commanders, and the rich, and the mighty, and every slave and every free person hid themselves in the caves and in the rocks of the mountains.

(Revelation 6:16) 
And they said to the mountains and to the rocks: “Fall upon us and hide us from the face of Him who sits on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb.”

(Revelation 6:17) 
For the great day of their wrath has come, and who will be able to stand against it?”

(Revelation 7:7:1) 
After these visions, I saw four Angels standing at the four corners of the earth. They were holding back the four winds of the earth, so that no wind could blow upon the earth, nor upon the sea, nor upon any tree.

(Revelation 7:7:2) 
Then I saw another Angel coming up from the direction of the rising sun. This Angel had the seal of the living God. He cried out with a loud voice to the four Angels who had been given the power to harm the earth and the sea.

(Revelation 7:7:3) 
He told them: "Do not harm the earth, nor the sea, nor the trees, until we have put a seal on the foreheads of the servants of our God."

(Revelation 7:7:4) 
And I heard the total number of those who were sealed: 144,000 people were sealed, from every tribe of the sons of Israel.

(Revelation 7:7:5) 
From the tribe of Judah, 12,000 were sealed. From the tribe of Reuben, 12,000 were sealed. From the tribe of Gad, 12,000 were sealed.

(Revelation 7:7:6) 
From the tribe of Asher, 12,000 were sealed. From the tribe of Naphtali, 12,000 were sealed. From the tribe of Manasseh, 12,000 were sealed.

(Revelation 7:7:7) 
From the tribe of Simeon, 12,000 were sealed. From the tribe of Levi, 12,000 were sealed. From the tribe of Issachar, 12,000 were sealed.

(Revelation 7:7:8) 
From the tribe of Zebulun, 12,000 were sealed. From the tribe of Joseph, 12,000 were sealed. From the tribe of Benjamin, 12,000 were sealed.

(Revelation 7:7:9) 
After these things, I saw a great multitude that no one could count. They came from every nation, and from all tribes, and peoples, and languages. They were standing before the throne of God and in the presence of the Lamb of God, clothed in shining white robes and holding palm branches in their hands.

(Revelation 7:7:10) 
And they cried out with a loud voice, saying: "Salvation comes from our God, who sits upon the throne, and from the Lamb!"

(Revelation 7:7:11) 
And all the Angels were standing around the throne, and around the Elders, and the four living creatures. They all fell on their faces before the throne and worshipped God.

(Revelation 7:7:12) 
saying: "Amen! Blessing, and glory, and wisdom, and thanksgiving, honor, and power, and strength belong to our God for ever and ever. Amen!"

(Revelation 7:7:13) 
Then one of the Elders spoke to me, asking: "Who are these people who are clothed in shining white robes? And where did they come from?"

(Revelation 7:7:14) 
And I said to him: "My Lord, you are the one who knows." And he said to me: "These are the ones who have come out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white by the blood of the Lamb."

(Revelation 7:7:15) 
Therefore, they are before the throne of God and serve Him day and night in His temple. And the One who sits on the throne will spread His tabernacle of protection over them.

(Revelation 7:7:16) 
They will never be hungry again, and they will never be thirsty again. Neither will the sun beat down on them, nor any scorching heat.

(Revelation 7:7:17) 
For the Lamb, who is at the very center of the throne, will be their Shepherd. He will lead them to the springs of the waters of life, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.

(Revelation 8:8:1) 
And when the Lamb had opened the seventh seal, there was a solemn silence in the spiritual realm of heaven, lasting for about half an hour.

(Revelation 8:8:2) 
I then saw seven angels standing before the very presence of God, and seven trumpets were given to them.

(Revelation 8:8:3) 
Another angel then came and stood before the heavenly altar, holding a golden censer. Much incense was given to him, so that he could offer it along with the prayers of all the holy ones on the golden altar that stands before God’s throne.

(Revelation 8:8:4) 
And the smoke of the incense, carrying the prayers of God's holy people, ascended from the angel's hand into the presence of God.

(Revelation 8:8:5) 
Then the angel took the censer, filled it with fire from the altar, and threw the fire down onto the earth. At once, there were great peals of thunder, roaring voices, flashes of lightning, and a mighty earthquake.

(Revelation 8:8:6) 
And the seven angels, who held the seven trumpets, prepared themselves to blow them.

(Revelation 8:8:7) 
The first angel sounded his trumpet, and there came hail and fire, mingled with blood, which was then cast down onto the earth. As a result, one-third of the earth was burned up, one-third of the trees were burned, and all the green grass was completely consumed by fire.

(Revelation 8:8:8) 
Then the second angel sounded his trumpet, and something like a massive mountain, blazing with fire, was hurled into the sea. One-third of the sea then turned into blood.

(Revelation 8:8:9) 
One-third of all the living creatures in the sea died, and one-third of all the ships were destroyed.

(Revelation 8:8:10) 
The third angel sounded his trumpet, and a great star, burning like a blazing torch, fell from the sky. It landed upon one-third of the rivers and the springs of water.

(Revelation 8:8:11) 
The name of the star is called "Wormwood," referring to its bitter effect. And one-third of the waters turned bitter like wormwood, and many people died from drinking these waters because they had become so bitter.

(Revelation 8:8:12) 
The fourth angel sounded his trumpet, and one-third of the sun was struck, one-third of the moon, and one-third of the stars. Consequently, one-third of their light was darkened, so that one-third of the day had no light, and similarly, one-third of the night was also dark.

(Revelation 8:8:13) 
I then looked and heard an eagle flying in the middle of the sky, crying out with a loud voice: "Woe! Woe! Woe to those who live on the earth, because of the remaining trumpet blasts of the three angels who are still about to sound their trumpets!"

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:1) 
The fifth angel then blew his trumpet. I then saw a star—a heavenly being—fall from the sky and land on the earth. This fallen star was given a key to unlock the bottomless pit of the abyss.

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:2) 
He opened the bottomless pit, and a vast amount of smoke rose from the pit, like the smoke from a massive furnace. The sun and the very air itself were both darkened by this smoke that came from the pit.

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:3) 
Then, from the smoke, swarms of these locust-like creatures emerged and spread across the earth. They were given a destructive power, similar to the power that earthly scorpions have when they sting.

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:4) 
They were explicitly commanded not to harm any vegetation—not the grass, nor any green plant, nor any tree. Their only target was to be those people who did not have the mark of God on their foreheads.

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:5) 
These creatures were not allowed to kill their victims. Instead, they were permitted to inflict torment upon them for a period of five months. The pain they caused was as severe as the excruciating pain a person feels when stung by a scorpion.

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:6) 
During that time of suffering, people will desperately search for death, yet they will not be able to find it. They will long to die, but death itself will evade them and keep them alive to suffer.

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:7) 
The appearance of these locust-like creatures was like horses equipped for battle. On their heads, they seemed to wear something like crowns made of gold, and their faces resembled human faces.

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:8) 
They had hair that looked like women's hair, and their teeth were as sharp and strong as the teeth of lions.

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:9) 
They were protected by breastplates that seemed to be made of iron. The sound of their wings was as deafening as the noise of many chariots pulled by numerous horses charging into battle.

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:10) 
These creatures possessed tails similar to those of scorpions, and their tails contained deadly stings. Their power to inflict harm on people was limited to five months.

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:11) 
These creatures had a king ruling over them—the angel of the bottomless pit. In Hebrew, his name is Abaddon, which means "destruction." In Greek, his name is Apollyon, also meaning "destroyer," and in Latin, his name is Exterminans, meaning "Exterminator."

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:12) 
The first "woe"—a period of intense suffering—has now concluded. But observe, two more such periods of woe are still coming after this.

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:13) 
Then the sixth angel blew his trumpet. I heard a single voice speaking from the four horns of the golden altar that stands before the very presence of God. This voice commanded the sixth angel, who held the trumpet, saying, "Release the four angels who are held bound at the great river Euphrates."

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:14) 
So the four angels were released. They had been precisely prepared for this specific hour, day, month, and year, to carry out their mission: to kill one-third of all humankind.

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:15) 
The number of the army of horsemen was an enormous two hundred million. I personally heard their exact number stated.

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:16) 
And this is how I saw the horses in the vision: their riders wore breastplates that were fiery red, dark blue, and sulfur-yellow. The horses' heads resembled the heads of lions, and from their mouths issued fire, smoke, and sulfur.

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:17) 
It was by these three plagues—the fire, the smoke, and the sulfur that erupted from the mouths of the horses—that one-third of all humanity was killed.

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:18) 
Indeed, their destructive power resides in both their mouths and their tails. Their tails are like venomous serpents, each having its own head, and it is with these that they inflict harm.

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:19) 
Indeed, their tails are like serpents, each having its own head, and it is with these serpent-like tails that they inflict harm.

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:20) 
Despite these devastating plagues, the rest of humanity who were not killed still did not repent of the evil deeds they had done with their own hands. They continued to worship demons and idols made of gold, silver, bronze, stone, and wood—lifeless objects that can neither see, hear, nor walk.

(Revelation 9:Revelation 9:21) 
They did not repent of their murders, nor of their sorceries and use of poisons, nor of their sexual immoralities, nor of their thefts.

(Revelation 10:1) 
Then I saw another powerful angel descending from the sky, clothed in a cloud, with a rainbow over his head. His face was like the sun, and his feet were like pillars of fire.

(Revelation 10:2) 
In his hand, he held an open scroll. He placed his right foot on the sea and his left foot on the land.

(Revelation 10:3) 
And he cried out with a loud voice, like a lion roaring. When he had cried out, the seven thunders uttered their voices.

(Revelation 10:4) 
And when the seven thunders had spoken their voices, I was about to write them down. But I heard a voice from the sky telling me, "Seal up the things which the seven thunders have spoken; do not write them."

(Revelation 10:5) 
Then the angel whom I saw standing over the sea and over the land raised his hand to the sky.

(Revelation 10:6) 
And he swore by the One who lives forever and ever, who created the universe and all the things that are within it, and the land and all the things that are on it, and the sea and all the things that are within it: that there would be no more delay.

(Revelation 10:7) 
But in the days when the seventh angel will sound his trumpet, when he begins to sound his trumpet, then the mystery of God will be completed, just as He announced through His servants, the prophets.

(Revelation 10:8) 
And I heard the voice from the sky speaking with me again, and it said, "Go, take the open scroll from the hand of the angel who is standing over the sea and over the land."

(Revelation 10:9) 
So I went to the angel, asking him to give me the scroll. And he said to me, "Take it, and eat it. It will make your stomach bitter, but in your mouth, it will be as sweet as honey."

(Revelation 10:10) 
And I took the scroll from the angel's hand and ate it. And in my mouth, it was as sweet as honey, but when I had eaten it, my stomach became bitter.

(Revelation 10:11) 
And the angel said to me, "You must prophesy again to many peoples, and nations, and languages, and kings."

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:1) 
And I was given a measuring rod, much like a staff, with a voice saying: "Rise up, and measure God's true Temple, and the Altar, and those who genuinely worship within it."

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:2) 
But the outer court, the part of the Temple that is outside, do not measure that; instead, leave it out. For it has been given over to the non-believers, who will trample upon the holy city for forty-two months—a specific period of persecution.

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:3) 
And I will give great power to My two witnesses, and they will prophesy for one thousand two hundred and sixty days—which is the same forty-two months—clothed in sackcloth as a sign of penance and mourning.

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:4) 
These two witnesses are the two olive trees and the two lampstands, standing in the very presence of the Lord who rules the earth, continuously supplied with divine grace and light.

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:5) 
And if anyone desires to harm them, divine judgment, like fire, will come out of their mouths and consume their enemies. Indeed, if anyone tries to harm them, they must be killed by this means of divine retribution.

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:6) 
These witnesses have the divine power to shut up the sky, so that no rain falls during the days of their prophecy. They also have power over the waters to turn them into blood, and to strike the earth with every kind of plague as often as they desire—just like Moses and Elijah.

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:7) 
And when they have finished their testimony and their prophetic mission, the Beast that ascends from the abyss—a demonic, anti-Christ power—will make war against them, overcome them, and kill them.

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:8) 
And their bodies will lie in the public square of the great city, which is symbolically called Sodom for its wickedness and Egypt for its oppression, the very place where their Lord was crucified, representing the world's rejection of God.

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:9) 
And people from every tribe, nation, language, and Gentile group will gaze upon their unburied bodies for three and a half days, and they will not allow their bodies to be placed in tombs, denying them a dignified burial.

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:10) 
And those who inhabit the earth will rejoice over their deaths and celebrate loudly. They will even send gifts to one another, because these two prophets had tormented all those who lived on the earth with their calls to repentance and their divine judgments.

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:11) 
But after the three and a half days, the very breath of life from God entered into them. And they stood upright on their feet, and tremendous fear gripped everyone who saw this miraculous resurrection.

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:12) 
Then they heard a loud voice from the sky telling them, "Come up here!" And they ascended into the sky, carried up in clouds, while their enemies watched them and saw their divine vindication.

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:13) 
At that very moment, a great earthquake struck, causing a tenth of the symbolic city to collapse. Seven thousand people were killed in the earthquake, and the survivors, overcome by terror, gave glory to the God who rules over the sky.

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:14) 
The second judgment-woe has passed, and watch closely—the third and final judgment-woe is about to come quickly.

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:15) 
And the seventh Angel blew his trumpet. Then, loud voices rang out through the universe, declaring: "The kingdom of this world has now become the eternal kingdom of Our Lord and His Anointed One, and He shall reign over all of it forever and ever!"

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:16) 
And the twenty-four elders, who were always seated before God on their thrones, fell prostrate on their faces and worshipped God, saying:

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:17) 
"We give You thanks, Lord God Almighty, Who always is, and Who always was, and Who is always to come—because You have now taken up Your tremendous power and have begun Your eternal reign."

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:18) 
"The nations raged against You, but Your righteous wrath has now come. It is the appointed time for the dead to be judged, and for You to give rewards to Your servants—the prophets and the saints, and to all who revere Your Name, from the least important to the greatest. And it is time for You to utterly destroy those who corrupted the earth."

(Revelation 11:Revelation 11:19) 
Then the very Temple of God in the universe was opened, and the Ark of His Covenant was plainly seen inside His Temple. This revelation was accompanied by flashes of lightning, loud rumblings, thunderclaps, a great earthquake, and massive hailstones falling, signifying divine presence and judgment.

(Revelation 12:1) 
Then a great sign appeared in the sky: A woman was clothed with the sun, with the moon beneath her feet, and on her head was a crown of twelve stars, representing the twelve Apostles and the fullness of the Church.

(Revelation 12:2) 
She was pregnant and cried out in the pain of childbirth, referring to the Virgin Mary giving birth to Christ, and the Church laboring to bring Christ to the world.

(Revelation 12:3) 
Then another sign was seen in the sky: And behold, a great red dragon appeared. It had seven heads and ten horns, and on its heads were seven royal crowns, signifying the vast power and dominion of Satan, the Adversary.

(Revelation 12:4) 
Its tail swept down a third of the stars from the sky and cast them to the earth, representing the fallen angels who rebelled with Satan. The Dragon then stood before the Woman who was about to give birth, so that when she delivered, he might devour her Son, referencing Satan's attempts to destroy Christ.

(Revelation 12:5) 
And she gave birth to a Son, a male child, who is destined to rule all nations with an iron scepter. Her Son, Jesus Christ, was immediately caught up to God and to His throne, signifying His Ascension and divine rule.

(Revelation 12:6) 
The Woman then fled into the wilderness, where she had a place prepared by God, that she might be nourished there for one thousand two hundred and sixty days, symbolizing the Church's period of persecution and divine protection.

(Revelation 12:7) 
And a great battle took place in the sky: Michael, the Archangel, and his angels fought against the Dragon. And the Dragon and his angels fought back.

(Revelation 12:8) 
But they were not strong enough, and their place was found no more in the heavens, as Satan and his demons were utterly defeated and cast out.

(Revelation 12:9) 
So the great Dragon was cast down, that ancient serpent, who is called the Devil and Satan, he who deceives the whole world. He was cast down to the earth, and his angels were cast down with him.

(Revelation 12:10) 
And I heard a loud voice in the sky saying: 'Now salvation has come, and strength, and the Kingdom of our God, and the power of His Christ! Because the accuser of our brothers, who accused them before the sight of our God day and night, has been cast down!'

(Revelation 12:11) 
And they overcame him because of the Blood of the Lamb, which is Jesus Christ's sacrifice, and because of the word of their testimony to the truth, and they did not love their lives even to the point of death, showing their ultimate fidelity.

(Revelation 12:12) 
Therefore, rejoice, O skies, and you who dwell in them! But woe to the earth and to the sea, for the Devil has come down to you, having great wrath, knowing that he has only a short time left for his evil work!

(Revelation 12:13) 
And after the Dragon saw that he had been cast down to the earth, he persecuted the Woman, who had given birth to the male child, redirecting his wrath against the Church.

(Revelation 12:14) 
And to the Woman were given two wings of a great eagle, so that she might fly into the wilderness to her place, where she is nourished for a time, and times, and half a time, away from the face of the serpent, signifying God's divine protection of the Church.

(Revelation 12:15) 
And the serpent cast out of his mouth, after the Woman, water like a river, so that he might cause her to be swept away by the current, representing various destructive forces like heresy or persecution aimed at overwhelming the Church.

(Revelation 12:16) 
But the earth helped the Woman, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed up the river that the Dragon had cast out of his mouth, showing how divine providence often uses earthly means to protect the Church.

(Revelation 12:17) 
And the Dragon was enraged with the Woman, and he went to wage war with the rest of her offspring, those who keep the commandments of God and hold to the testimony of Jesus Christ, signifying Satan's ongoing war against individual believers and the faithful remnant of the Church.

(Revelation 13:Revelation 13:1) 
And I saw a beast rise up from the depths of the sea, and this beast had seven heads and ten horns. On its horns were ten crowns, and on its heads were blasphemous names.

(Revelation 13:Revelation 13:2) 
The beast I saw was like a leopard in body, but its feet were like a bear's feet, and its mouth was like a lion's mouth. The Dragon—Satan himself—gave this beast its power, its throne, and its great authority.

(Revelation 13:Revelation 13:3) 
One of its heads appeared to have suffered a mortal wound, as if it had been killed, but its deadly wound was healed. The entire world was astonished by this beast and followed it in wonder.

(Revelation 13:Revelation 13:4) 
And they worshipped the Dragon, because he had given his authority to the beast. They also worshipped the beast, saying, "Who is like the beast? And who is able to wage war against it?"

(Revelation 13:Revelation 13:5) 
The beast was given a mouth that spoke arrogant boasts and blasphemies against God. And it was given authority to exercise its power for forty-two months.

(Revelation 13:Revelation 13:6) 
It opened its mouth to utter blasphemies against God, to blaspheme His holy name, His sacred dwelling place, and those who dwell in the spiritual realm with Him.

(Revelation 13:Revelation 13:7) 
It was also granted to the beast to make war against God's holy people and to conquer them. And it was given authority over every tribe, people, language, and nation on earth.

(Revelation 13:Revelation 13:8) 
All who live on the earth will worship it—everyone whose name has not been written from the very beginning of the world in the Book of Life of the Lamb, who was slain for the sins of humanity.

(Revelation 13:Revelation 13:9) 
If anyone has ears to hear this truth, let him pay attention.

(Revelation 13:Revelation 13:10) 
Whoever is destined for captivity will go into captivity; and whoever is to be killed by the sword must be killed by the sword. This calls for the perseverance and the steadfast faith of God's holy people.

(Revelation 13:Revelation 13:11) 
Then I saw another beast coming up out of the earth. It had two horns like those of a lamb, but it spoke with the voice of the Dragon.

(Revelation 13:Revelation 13:12) 
This second beast exercised all the authority of the first beast on its behalf, and it forced the earth and all its inhabitants to worship the first beast, whose deadly wound had been healed.

(Revelation 13:Revelation 13:13) 
It performed great and miraculous signs, even causing fire to come down from the sky to the earth in the plain sight of all people.

(Revelation 13:Revelation 13:14) 
It deceived those who dwell on the earth through the signs it was allowed to perform on behalf of the first beast. It ordered the inhabitants of the earth to make an image in honor of the beast that had been wounded by the sword and yet lived.

(Revelation 13:Revelation 13:15) 
The second beast was then allowed to give life to the image of the first beast, so that the image could speak and could cause all who refused to worship the image of the beast to be killed.

(Revelation 13:Revelation 13:16) 
It also forced all people, both small and great, rich and poor, free and slave, to receive a distinguishing mark on their right hands or on their foreheads.

(Revelation 13:Revelation 13:17) 
No one was allowed to buy or sell anything unless they had this mark, which was either the name of the beast or the number representing its name.

(Revelation 13:Revelation 13:18) 
Here is wisdom. Let anyone with true understanding calculate the number of the beast, for it is a human number. That number is six hundred sixty-six.

(Revelation 14:1) 
And I saw: and behold, the Lamb was standing on Mount Zion. With Him were one hundred and forty-four thousand people who had His name and the name of His Father written on their foreheads.

(Revelation 14:2) 
And I heard a voice from the sky, like the sound of many waters, and like the sound of a great thunder. The voice I heard was also like harpers playing on their harps.

(Revelation 14:3) 
And they were singing what seemed to be a new song before the throne, and before the four living creatures, and the elders. No one could learn that song except those one hundred and forty-four thousand who had been redeemed and purchased from the earth.

(Revelation 14:4) 
These are those who have not defiled themselves with women; for they are virgins. These follow the Lamb wherever He goes. These were purchased from among humanity as the firstfruits for God and for the Lamb.

(Revelation 14:5) 
And in their mouth no lie was found. For they are without blemish, standing before the throne of God.

(Revelation 14:6) 
And I saw another Angel flying through the middle of the sky, having an eternal Gospel to preach to those who dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and tribe, and tongue, and people.

(Revelation 14:7) 
Saying with a loud voice: 'Fear the Lord and give Him glory, because the hour of His judgment has come. And worship Him who made the sky and the earth, the sea and the springs of water.'

(Revelation 14:8) 
And another Angel followed, saying: 'Fallen, fallen is that great Babylon! She who made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.'

(Revelation 14:9) 
And a third Angel followed them, saying with a loud voice: 'If anyone worships the Beast and its image, and receives its mark on his forehead or on his hand,'

(Revelation 14:10) 
that person will also drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out undiluted into the cup of His wrath. And he will be tormented with fire and sulfur in the presence of the holy Angels and in the presence of the Lamb.

(Revelation 14:11) 
And the smoke of their torments will ascend forever and ever. They have no rest day or night, those who worshipped the Beast and its image, and whoever receives the mark of its name.

(Revelation 14:12) 
Here is the perseverance of the saints, those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus.

(Revelation 14:13) 
And I heard a voice from the sky saying to me: 'Write: Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from this time forward.' The Spirit says that they will rest from their labors, for their deeds follow them.

(Revelation 14:14) 
And I saw: and behold, a white cloud, and seated on the cloud was one like the Son of Man, having on His head a golden crown, and in His hand a sharp sickle.

(Revelation 14:15) 
And another Angel came out of the Temple, crying with a loud voice to the One seated on the cloud: 'Send Your sickle and reap, for the hour to reap has come, because the harvest of the earth is ripe and withered.'

(Revelation 14:16) 
And the One who was seated on the cloud sent His sickle onto the earth, and the earth was reaped.

(Revelation 14:17) 
And another Angel came out of the Temple that is in the spiritual realm, also having a sharp sickle.

(Revelation 14:18) 
And another Angel came out from the altar, having authority over fire. And he cried with a loud voice to the one who had the sharp sickle, saying: 'Send your sharp sickle and gather the clusters of the earth's vine, for its grapes are fully ripe.'

(Revelation 14:19) 
And the Angel sent his sickle onto the earth, and harvested the vine of the earth, and threw the grapes into the great winepress of the wrath of God.

(Revelation 14:20) 
And the winepress was trampled outside the city, and blood flowed from the winepress up to the horses' bridles for a distance of one thousand six hundred stadia.

(Revelation 15:1) 
Then I saw another great and amazing sign in the heavenly realm: it was seven angels holding the seven final plagues, because in these plagues, the wrath of God is brought to its ultimate completion.

(Revelation 15:2) 
And I saw something that looked like a sea of glass, mixed with fire. Standing upon this fiery glass sea were those who had triumphed over the beast, and its image, and the number of its name. They were holding harps, given by God.

(Revelation 15:3) 
And they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb. They declared: "Great and wonderful are Your works, O Lord God Almighty. Your ways are just and true, O King of the ages, the Lord who reigns through all time."

(Revelation 15:4) 
"Who will not fear You, O Lord, and glorify Your name? For You alone are holy and righteous. Indeed, all the nations will come and worship before Your presence, because Your righteous judgments have been made known to all."

(Revelation 15:5) 
And after these things, I looked again, and behold, the temple of the tabernacle of testimony in the heavenly realm was opened.

(Revelation 15:6) 
And the seven angels came out from the temple, holding the seven plagues. They were clothed with pure and bright stone, shimmering with divine radiance, and girded around their chests with golden sashes.

(Revelation 15:7) 
And one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels golden bowls, filled to the brim with the wrath of God, the God who lives forever and ever, throughout all ages.

(Revelation 15:8) 
And the temple was filled with smoke, emanating from the majesty of God and from His immense power. And no one was able to enter the temple until the seven plagues of the seven angels were fully completed.

(Revelation 16:16:1) 
And I heard a loud voice coming from the Temple. It said to the seven angels: 'Go now, and pour out the seven bowls of God's righteous wrath upon the earth.'

(Revelation 16:16:2) 
So the first angel went and poured out his bowl upon the land. Then a painful and malignant ulcer—a festering sore—appeared on those people who had the mark of the Beast and who worshiped its image.

(Revelation 16:16:3) 
Then the second angel poured out his bowl upon the sea. And the sea became like the blood of a dead person—thick and congealed. Every living creature in the sea died because of this.

(Revelation 16:16:4) 
Next, the third angel poured out his bowl upon the rivers and the springs of water. And they also turned into blood.

(Revelation 16:16:5) 
Then I heard the angel who was responsible for the waters say: 'You are just, O Lord, who exist always, and who always were holy, because You have issued these judgments.'

(Revelation 16:16:6) 
'Because they poured out the blood of Your holy ones and Your prophets, You have given them blood to drink in return. For they deserve this punishment.'

(Revelation 16:16:7) 
And I heard another voice coming from the altar, saying: 'Yes, Lord God Almighty! Your judgments are truthful and righteous!'

(Revelation 16:16:8) 
Then the fourth angel poured out his bowl upon the sun. And power was given to the sun to scorch people with its intense heat and fire.

(Revelation 16:16:9) 
People were scorched by this extreme heat. Yet they cursed the Name of God—who has authority over these plagues—and they refused to repent and give Him glory.

(Revelation 16:16:10) 
And the fifth angel poured out his bowl upon the throne of the Beast. Immediately, its kingdom became consumed by darkness, and people bit their tongues in agonizing pain.

(Revelation 16:16:11) 
They cursed the God of the heavens because of their pains and their sores. Yet they did not repent of their wicked deeds.

(Revelation 16:16:12) 
Then the sixth angel poured out his bowl upon the great Euphrates River. And its water dried up, so that a way might be prepared for the kings who come from the rising of the sun—from the East.

(Revelation 16:16:13) 
And I saw three unclean spirits that looked like frogs coming out of the mouth of the Dragon, and out of the mouth of the Beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet.

(Revelation 16:16:14) 
For these are spirits of demons, performing miraculous signs. They go out to the kings of the whole earth and the entire world, to gather them for the battle on the great Day of God Almighty.

(Revelation 16:16:15) 
Behold, I am coming unexpectedly, like a thief! Blessed is the one who stays alert and guards his spiritual garments, so that he may not walk around spiritually naked and his shame be seen by all.

(Revelation 16:16:16) 
And the demonic spirits gathered them together to the place which is called, in Hebrew, Armageddon.

(Revelation 16:16:17) 
Then the seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air. And a loud voice came out of the Temple, from the throne of God, saying: 'It is finished! It has happened!'

(Revelation 16:16:18) 
And there were lightning flashes, and rumblings, and thunder, and a great earthquake—such an earthquake as has never occurred since humanity has existed on the earth, so tremendous and so great.

(Revelation 16:16:19) 
And the great city split into three parts. The cities of the nations fell into ruin. And great Babylon was remembered before God, so that He might give her the cup of the wine of His fierce, righteous wrath.

(Revelation 16:16:20) 
Every island vanished, and the mountains were no longer found.

(Revelation 16:16:21) 
And a tremendous hailstorm—with hailstones weighing as much as a talent, about one hundred pounds each—fell from the sky upon the people. Yet they cursed God because of the plague of the hail, for the plague was exceedingly great.

(Revelation 17:1) 
One of the seven angels who held the seven bowls came and spoke with me, saying: "Come, I will show you the judgment of the great harlot, who sits enthroned over many nations and peoples."

(Revelation 17:2) 
The kings of the earth have committed spiritual adultery with her, and those who live on the earth have become drunk and misled by the wine of her spiritual corruption.

(Revelation 17:3) 
The angel carried me away in spirit into a desolate place. There I saw a woman sitting upon a scarlet beast, which was full of blasphemous names and had seven heads and ten horns.

(Revelation 17:4) 
The woman was clothed in purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold, precious stones, and pearls. She held a golden cup in her hand, full of abominations and the impurities of her spiritual adultery.

(Revelation 17:5) 
And upon her forehead was a name written: "A Mystery: Babylon the Great, the mother of spiritual adulteries and abominations of the earth."

(Revelation 17:6) 
And I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the holy ones and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. When I saw her, I was greatly astonished and filled with wonder.

(Revelation 17:7) 
And the angel said to me: "Why are you astonished? I will tell you the hidden truth about the woman and concerning the beast that carries her, which has seven heads and ten horns."

(Revelation 17:8) 
The beast which you saw was, and is not, and will ascend from the abyss, and then go into destruction. And those who live on the earth, whose names were not written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, will be astonished when they see the beast, because it was, and is not, yet is about to be present again.

(Revelation 17:9) 
Here is a profound understanding for one who possesses wisdom: The seven heads are seven mountains, upon which the woman is seated, and these also represent seven kings.

(Revelation 17:10) 
Five of these kings have fallen, one is currently reigning, and another has not yet come. And when he comes, he must remain for a short time.

(Revelation 17:11) 
And the beast that was, and is not, this very beast is also the eighth king, yet it is one of the seven, and it goes into destruction.

(Revelation 17:12) 
And the ten horns which you saw are ten kings, who have not yet received royal power, but they will receive authority as kings for one hour with the beast.

(Revelation 17:13) 
These kings share one common purpose, and they will hand over their strength and authority to the beast.

(Revelation 17:14) 
These will fight with the Lamb, but the Lamb will conquer them, because He is the Lord of lords and King of kings. And those who are with Him are the called, the chosen, and the faithful.

(Revelation 17:15) 
And he said to me: "The waters which you saw, where the harlot sits, they are peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and languages."

(Revelation 17:16) 
And the ten horns which you saw, belonging to the beast, these kings will hate the harlot. They will make her desolate and stripped bare, they will devour her flesh, and burn her with fire.

(Revelation 17:17) 
For God has put it into their hearts to carry out His will, and to give their royal power to the beast, until the words of God are fulfilled.

(Revelation 17:18) 
And the woman whom you saw is the great city, which holds dominion over the kings of the earth.

(Revelation 18:1) 
And after these things, I saw another Angel descending from the sky,
who had great power.
And the entire earth was illuminated by his glorious presence.

(Revelation 18:2) 
And the Angel cried out with a strong voice, saying: “Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great!
She has become a dwelling place for demons,
a prison for every unclean spirit,
and a prison for every unclean and hateful bird.

(Revelation 18:3) 
This has happened because all nations have drunk of the wine of her passionate fornication.
The kings of the earth have committed fornication with her,
and the merchants of the earth have grown rich from the power of her luxurious living.”

(Revelation 18:4) 
And I heard another voice from the sky saying:
“Come out from her, My people, all you faithful ones!
Do this so that you may not be sharers in her sins,
and so that you may not receive any of her plagues.

(Revelation 18:5) 
For her sins have reached all the way up to the sky, to the throne of God’s judgment,
and the Lord has remembered her iniquities and will act upon them.

(Revelation 18:6) 
Pay her back just as she herself has paid you, for her evil deeds.
Double her double according to her works.
In the cup which she has mixed for others, mix for her double the amount.

(Revelation 18:7) 
As much as she glorified herself and lived luxuriously and in pleasure,
so much give her torment and sorrow.
For in her heart she says with pride: ‘I sit as a queen, and I am not a widow, and I shall see no sorrow or suffering.’

(Revelation 18:8) 
Therefore, in one single day her plagues will come upon her: death, and sorrow, and famine.
And she will be burned with fire.
This will happen because strong is the Lord God, the Almighty, who judges her.

(Revelation 18:9) 
And the kings of the earth who committed fornication with her and lived luxuriously will weep and mourn over her,
when they see the smoke of her burning destruction.

(Revelation 18:10) 
They will stand far off because of the fear of her torment,
saying: “Woe, woe, that great city, Babylon, that strong city!
For in one hour your judgment has come!”

(Revelation 18:11) 
And the merchants of the earth will weep and mourn over her,
because no one will buy their merchandise any longer.

(Revelation 18:12) 
Their merchandise included gold, and silver, and precious stones, and pearls,
and fine linen, and purple, and silk, and scarlet,
and all fragrant thyme wood,
and all vessels made of ivory,
and all vessels made of precious stone, and of bronze, and of iron, and of marble.

(Revelation 18:13) 
Also cinnamon, and amomum (a fragrant spice), and perfumes, and ointment, and frankincense,
and wine, and oil, and fine flour, and wheat,
and cattle, and sheep, and horses, and carriages or chariots,
and slaves, and the very souls of men.

(Revelation 18:14) 
And the fruits your soul passionately desired have departed from you.
And all your rich and splendid things have perished from you,
and they will never, ever be found again.

(Revelation 18:15) 
The merchants of these things, who grew rich from their dealings with her,
will stand far off because of the fear of her torment,
weeping and mourning.

(Revelation 18:16) 
And they will be saying: “Woe, woe, that great city,
which was clothed in fine linen, and purple, and scarlet,
and adorned with gold, and precious stone, and pearls!

(Revelation 18:17) 
For in one hour such great riches have been laid waste and brought to nothing!”
And every captain, and every passenger on ships, and sailors, and all who sail the sea,
stood far off.

(Revelation 18:18) 
And they cried out, seeing the place of her burning,
saying: “What city was ever like this great city?!”

(Revelation 18:19) 
And they threw dust upon their heads as a sign of deep mourning,
and they cried out, weeping and mourning, saying: “Woe, woe, that great city!
In her, all who had ships at sea grew rich from her wealth and her costly prices.
For in one single hour she has been utterly desolated!”

(Revelation 18:20) 
Rejoice over her, you inhabitants of the celestial realms, meaning angels and saints,
and you holy Apostles and Prophets!
This is because God has judged your cause against her and brought justice upon her.

(Revelation 18:21) 
And one mighty Angel lifted up a stone like a great millstone, an enormous grinding stone,
and threw it into the sea, saying: “With such violence and force shall Babylon, that great city, be thrown down into oblivion,
and she shall never, ever be found again.”

(Revelation 18:22) 
And the sound of harpists, and musicians, and flute players, and trumpets will no longer be heard in you.
And no craftsman of any craft or skill will be found in you any longer.
And the sound of the millstone, for daily bread, will not be heard in you any longer.

(Revelation 18:23) 
And the light of a lamp will shine no longer in you, ending all activity.
And the voice of the bridegroom and the bride, signifying joy and new life, will not be heard in you any longer.
This judgment comes because your merchants were the great ones and rulers of the earth,
and because by your sorceries, deceptions, and spiritual manipulations, all nations were led astray into sin.

(Revelation 18:24) 
And in her was found the blood of Prophets and of all Saints,
of all who were unjustly slain on the earth through the ages.

(Revelation 19:1) 
After these events, I heard what sounded like a massive voice from countless crowds in the spiritual realm, saying: “Praise God! All salvation, all glory, and all power belong to our God.”

(Revelation 19:2) 
“Because His judgments are true and just. He has judged the great harlot who corrupted the earth with her immorality, and He has avenged the blood of His servants from her hands.”

(Revelation 19:3) 
And again they said: “Praise God!” And the smoke of her burning ascended forever and ever.

(Revelation 19:4) 
And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshipped God, who was seated upon His throne, saying: “So be it! Praise God!”

(Revelation 19:5) 
And a voice came forth from the throne, saying: “Praise our God, all you His servants, and you who fear Him, both small and great.”

(Revelation 19:6) 
And I heard what sounded like the voice of a great crowd, and like the sound of many rushing waters, and like the sound of mighty thunderclaps, saying: “Praise God! Because the Lord our Almighty God has begun His reign.”

(Revelation 19:7) 
“Let us rejoice and exult, and let us give glory to Him. Because the Wedding Feast of the Lamb has come, and His Bride has prepared herself for it.”

(Revelation 19:8) 
And it was granted to her that she should be clothed in fine linen, bright and pure. For the fine linen represents the righteous acts of the saints.

(Revelation 19:9) 
And He said to me: “Write this down: Blessed are those who are called to the Wedding Supper of the Lamb.” And He said to me: “These words are the true words of God.”

(Revelation 19:10) 
And I fell before his feet to worship him. And he said to me: “Do not do that! I am a fellow servant with you and with your brothers who hold to the testimony of Jesus. Worship God alone. For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy itself.”

(Revelation 19:11) 
And then I saw the spiritual realm opened, and behold, a white horse. And the One who sat upon it was called “Faithful” and “True,” and with justice He judges and makes war.

(Revelation 19:12) 
And His eyes were like a flame of fire, and upon His head were many diadems, and He had a name written on Him which no one knows but Himself.

(Revelation 19:13) 
And He was clothed in a vestment dipped in blood, and His name is called: “The Son of God” (The Word of God).

(Revelation 19:14) 
And the armies of the spiritual realms followed Him on white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean.

(Revelation 19:15) 
And from His mouth proceeds a sharp, two-edged sword, that with it He may strike down the nations. And He Himself will rule them with a rod of iron. And He Himself treads the winepress of the furious wrath of Almighty God.

(Revelation 19:16) 
And He has written on His vestment and on His thigh: “KING OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS.”

(Revelation 19:17) 
And I saw a single Angel standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice, saying to all the birds that flew through the midst of the sky: “Come, gather yourselves together for the great Supper of God.”

(Revelation 19:18) 
“So that you may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of tribunes, and the flesh of strong men, and the flesh of horses and of those who sat upon them, and the flesh of all free men and of servants, and of both small and great.”

(Revelation 19:19) 
And I saw the Beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies gathered together to make war against the One who sat upon the horse, and against His army.

(Revelation 19:20) 
And the Beast was captured, and with it the false prophet, who had performed signs in its presence, with which he deceived those who had received the mark of the Beast and who had worshipped its image. These two, while still alive, were cast into the lake of fire burning with sulfur.

(Revelation 19:21) 
And the rest were slain with the sword of the One who sat upon the horse, which proceeds from His mouth. And all the birds were filled with their flesh.

(Revelation 20:Revelation 20:1) 
Then I saw an angel coming down from the sky. He was holding the key to the bottomless pit, the Abyss, and a great chain in his hand.

(Revelation 20:Revelation 20:2) 
He seized the dragon, that ancient serpent, who is also called the Devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years, a symbolic period of spiritual confinement.

(Revelation 20:Revelation 20:3) 
The angel then threw him into the Abyss, shutting it and sealing it over him. This was so the Devil could not deceive the nations and turn them away from God until the thousand years of spiritual confinement were completed. After that, he must be released for a short time.

(Revelation 20:Revelation 20:4) 
Then I saw thrones, and those who sat on them were given the authority to judge. I also saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for proclaiming Jesus and God's word, and those who had not worshipped the Beast or its image, nor received its mark on their foreheads or hands. These souls came to life and reigned with Christ for this spiritual period of a thousand years.

(Revelation 20:Revelation 20:5) 
The rest of the spiritually dead did not come to life in this way until the thousand years were finished. This is what is meant by the first resurrection: a spiritual reawakening and reign with Christ.

(Revelation 20:Revelation 20:6) 
Blessed and holy is anyone who has a part in this first resurrection, meaning a spiritual reign with Christ. Over these, the second death—eternal damnation in hell—has no power. Instead, they will be priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with Him for this spiritual period of a thousand years.

(Revelation 20:Revelation 20:7) 
When the thousand years are completed, Satan will be released from his spiritual prison. He will then go out to deceive the nations throughout the whole earth—Gog and Magog, representing all who oppose God—and gather them for a final spiritual battle. Their numbers will be as countless as the sand of the sea.

(Revelation 20:Revelation 20:8) 
They marched across the broad expanse of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city, which is the Church.

(Revelation 20:Revelation 20:9) 
Then fire came down from God out of the sky and consumed them all. And the Devil, who had deceived them, was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur, where the Beast and the False Prophet had already been cast. There they will be tormented day and night for all eternity.

(Revelation 20:Revelation 20:10) 
Then I saw a great white throne, and One sitting on it. Before His presence, the earth and the sky fled away, and no place was found for them.

(Revelation 20:Revelation 20:11) 
I saw all the dead, both great and small, standing before the throne. Books were opened, which contained records of their lives. And another book was opened, which is the Book of Life. The dead were judged according to their deeds, which were written in those books.

(Revelation 20:Revelation 20:12) 
The sea gave up the dead that were in it. And Death and Hades (the realm of the dead) gave up their dead that were in them. Every single person was judged according to what they had done in their lives.

(Revelation 20:Revelation 20:13) 
And Death itself and Hades (the realm of the dead) were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, which is eternal damnation.

(Revelation 20:Revelation 20:14) 
If anyone's name was not found written in the Book of Life, that person was cast into the lake of fire, suffering eternal damnation.

(Revelation 21:1) 
I then saw a new universe and a new earth. The old universe and the old earth had passed away, and the sea no longer existed.

(Revelation 21:2) 
And I, John, saw the Holy City, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of the sky from God. It was prepared like a bride beautifully adorned for her husband.

(Revelation 21:3) 
And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying: 'Behold, the dwelling place of God is with humanity, and He will live with them. They will be His people, and God Himself will be with them as their God.'

(Revelation 21:4) 
And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying, nor pain anymore, because the former things have passed away.

(Revelation 21:5) 
And He who sat on the throne said: 'Behold, I am making all things new.' He also said to me, 'Write, for these words are utterly trustworthy and true.'

(Revelation 21:6) 
And He said to me: 'It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end of all things. To the one who thirsts, I will give water from the fountain of life as a free gift.'

(Revelation 21:7) 
The one who overcomes will inherit these things. And I will be his God, and he will be My son.

(Revelation 21:8) 
But for the cowardly, the unbelieving, the detestable, the murderers, the sexually immoral, the sorcerers, the idolaters, and all liars—their destiny will be in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death.

(Revelation 21:9) 
Then one of the seven angels who held the seven bowls full of the last seven plagues came and spoke with me, saying: 'Come, and I will show you the Bride, the wife of the Lamb.'

(Revelation 21:10) 
And he carried me away in the Spirit to a great and high mountain, and he showed me the Holy City, Jerusalem, descending out of the sky from God.

(Revelation 21:11) 
It had the glory of God. Its radiance was like that of a very precious jewel, like a jasper stone, as clear as crystal.

(Revelation 21:12) 
It had a great, high wall with twelve gates. At the gates were twelve angels, and names were inscribed on them, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel.

(Revelation 21:13) 
There were three gates on the east, three on the north, three on the south, and three on the west.

(Revelation 21:14) 
The wall of the City also had twelve foundations, and on them were the names of the twelve Apostles of the Lamb.

(Revelation 21:15) 
The angel who spoke with me had a golden measuring rod to measure the City, its gates, and its wall.

(Revelation 21:16) 
The City was laid out as a square, and its length was as great as its width. He measured the City with the golden rod, and it was twelve thousand stadia long. Its length, height, and width were all equal.

(Revelation 21:17) 
He also measured its wall, which was one hundred and forty-four cubits by human measure—this refers to the unit of measurement that angels use, not their physical size.

(Revelation 21:18) 
The wall was built of jasper, and the City itself was pure gold, clear as pure glass.

(Revelation 21:19) 
The foundations of the City wall were adorned with every kind of precious stone. The first foundation was jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, chalcedony; the fourth, emerald;

(Revelation 21:20) 
the fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprase; the eleventh, hyacinth; the twelfth, amethyst.

(Revelation 21:21) 
The twelve gates were twelve pearls, each gate made from a single pearl. And the main street of the City was pure gold, as transparent as glass.

(Revelation 21:22) 
I saw no temple within it, for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are its temple.

(Revelation 21:23) 
The City has no need of the sun or the moon to shine in it, for the glory of God illuminates it, and the Lamb is its lamp.

(Revelation 21:24) 
The nations will walk by its light, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory and honor into it.

(Revelation 21:25) 
Its gates will never be shut by day, because there will be no night there.

(Revelation 21:26) 
And they will bring the glory and honor of the nations into it.

(Revelation 21:27) 
Nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor will anyone who does what is detestable or practices falsehood. Only those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life will enter.

(Revelation 22:2) 
In the middle of the city's main street, and on both sides of the river, stood the tree of life, bearing twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit each month, and the leaves of the tree are for the healing of the nations.

(Revelation 22:3) 
And there will be no more curse or damnation. Instead, the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and His servants will serve Him directly.

(Revelation 22:4) 
They will see His face directly, and His name will be visibly marked on their foreheads, showing their complete belonging to Him.

(Revelation 22:5) 
And there will be no more night. They will not need the light of a lamp or the light of the sun, because the Lord God Himself will enlighten them, and they will reign with Him forever and ever.

(Revelation 22:6) 
And the angel said to me: "These words are most trustworthy and true. For the Lord God, who inspires the spirits of the prophets, has sent His Angel to show His servants what must soon take place."

(Revelation 22:7) 
"And behold, I am coming quickly. Blessed is the one who truly keeps the words of the prophecy contained in this book."

(Revelation 22:8) 
And I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things. After I had heard and seen them, I fell down to worship before the feet of the Angel who had shown me these things.

(Revelation 22:9) 
And he said to me: "Do not do that! For I am a fellow servant with you, and with your brethren the prophets, and with all those who keep the words of this book. Worship God alone, for He is the only one worthy."

(Revelation 22:10) 
And he said to me: "Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time for these events is near."

(Revelation 22:11) 
"Let him who does wrong continue to do wrong still, and let him who is filthy remain filthy still. But let him who is just continue to be justified still, and let him who is holy continue to be sanctified still." This means that soon, each person's spiritual state will be fixed.

(Revelation 22:12) 
"Behold, I am coming quickly, and My reward is with Me, so that I may render to each person according to their works."

(Revelation 22:13) 
"I am the Alpha and the Omega, which means I am the First and the Last, the very Beginning and the End of all things."

(Revelation 22:14) 
Blessed are those who wash their robes in the Blood of the Lamb, so that they may have the right to eat from the tree of life and may enter into the Holy City through its gates.

(Revelation 22:15) 
Outside the Holy City are the dogs—meaning the impure and those who oppose God—along with sorcerers, the sexually immoral, murderers, idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices falsehood.

(Revelation 22:16) 
"I, Jesus, have sent My Angel to give you this testimony for all the Churches. I am the Root and the Offspring of David, the bright, splendid Morning Star."

(Revelation 22:17) 
And the Holy Spirit and the Church, His Bride, say: "Come, Lord Jesus!" And let everyone who hears this also say: "Come!" Let anyone who is spiritually thirsty come, and let anyone who wills, take the water of life freely, as a gift.

(Revelation 22:18) 
For I solemnly testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book: If anyone presumes to add to these revealed truths, God will add to him the plagues that are written in this book.

(Revelation 22:19) 
And if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his portion from the tree of life and from the Holy City, and from the blessings that are written in this book.

(Revelation 22:20) 
He who gives testimony to these things, which is Jesus Himself, says: "Yes, I am coming quickly." Amen. Come, Lord Jesus!

(Revelation 22:21) 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with all of you. Amen.