(2 Thessalonians 1:1) 
From Paul, Silas, and Timothy, to the Church of the Thessalonians, who are in God our Father, and in Our Lord Jesus Christ:

(2 Thessalonians 1:2) 
May grace and peace be given to you from God our Father, and from Our Lord Jesus Christ.

(2 Thessalonians 1:3) 
We ought to always give thanks to God for you, brothers, as is proper, because your faith increases so much, and the charity of each one of you abounds toward one another:

(2 Thessalonians 1:4) 
so that we ourselves may glory in you in the churches of God, because of your patience and faith in all your persecutions, and in the tribulations that you endure,

(2 Thessalonians 1:5) 
This is proof of God’s just judgment, that you may be worthy of the Kingdom of God, for which you also suffer:

(2 Thessalonians 1:6) 
Because it is just for God to repay with tribulation those who afflict you:

(2 Thessalonians 1:7) 
and to give rest to you who are afflicted, along with us, at the revelation of Our Lord Jesus Christ with the angels of His power,

(2 Thessalonians 1:8) 
in flaming fire, taking vengeance on those who do not know God, and who do not obey the Gospel of Our Lord Jesus Christ:

(2 Thessalonians 1:9) 
These people will pay the penalty of eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord, and from the glory of His power:

(2 Thessalonians 1:10) 
On that day, He will come to be glorified among His holy ones, and to be admired among all who have believed (because our testimony among you was believed).

(2 Thessalonians 1:11) 
Therefore, we always pray for you: that God may deem you worthy of His calling, and may fulfill every desire of goodness, and the work of faith in power,

(2 Thessalonians 1:12) 
so that the name of Our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you, and you in Him, according to the grace of our God, and Our Lord Jesus Christ.

(2 Thessalonians 2:1) 
Now, brothers, we beg you about the second coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and our gathering to Him.

(2 Thessalonians 2:2) 
Don't let anyone easily shake your faith, nor should you be frightened, whether by a spirit, or by a word, or by a letter as if sent by us, that the Day of the Lord is present.

(2 Thessalonians 2:3) 
Let no one deceive you in any way. Because the Day of the Lord will not come unless the apostasy has come first, and the man of sin, the son of perdition, has been revealed,

(2 Thessalonians 2:4) 
Who opposes and elevates himself above all that is called God, or that is worshiped. This man will sit in the temple of God, showing himself as if he is God.

(2 Thessalonians 2:5) 
Don't you remember that I told you these things when I was still with you?

(2 Thessalonians 2:6) 
Now you know what restrains him, so that he may be revealed in his time.

(2 Thessalonians 2:7) 
For the mystery of iniquity is already at work, only until he who now restrains is taken out of the way.

(2 Thessalonians 2:8) 
And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will kill with the breath of His mouth, and will destroy with the brightness of His coming.

(2 Thessalonians 2:9) 
This man's coming is according to the working of Satan, in all power, and signs, and wonders of lies,

(2 Thessalonians 2:10) 
and in all the deceits of wickedness for those who perish, because they didn't accept the love of the truth, that they might be saved.

(2 Thessalonians 2:11) 
And therefore God will send them the operation of error, that they should believe a lie:

(2 Thessalonians 2:12) 
so that all may be judged who did not believe the truth, but who consented to iniquity.

(2 Thessalonians 2:13) 
But we ought to give thanks to God always for you, brothers beloved by God, because God chose you as the first fruits for salvation, in the sanctification of the Spirit, and the faith of truth:

(2 Thessalonians 2:14) 
to which He called you through our Gospel, so that you might obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.

(2 Thessalonians 2:15) 
So then, brothers, stand firm and hold to the traditions that you were taught, either by word of mouth, or by our letter.

(2 Thessalonians 2:16) 
Now may our Lord Jesus Christ Himself, and God and our Father, who loved us, and gave everlasting consolation and good hope through grace,

(2 Thessalonians 2:17) 
exhort your hearts, and confirm them in every good work and word.

(2 Thessalonians 3:1) 
Finally, brothers, pray for us, that the word of the Lord spreads and is glorified, just as it is with you.

(2 Thessalonians 3:2) 
And pray that we might be delivered from unreasonable and evil men. Because not everyone has faith.

(2 Thessalonians 3:3) 
But God is faithful, and He will strengthen you and guard you from evil.

(2 Thessalonians 3:4) 
Moreover, we trust in the Lord concerning you, that you both do the things that we command you, and will do them.

(2 Thessalonians 3:5) 
And may the Lord direct your hearts in the love of God and in the patience of Christ.

(2 Thessalonians 3:6) 
Now we command you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you withdraw from every brother who walks disorderly, and not according to the tradition which they received from us.

(2 Thessalonians 3:7) 
For you yourselves know how it is necessary to imitate us: because we did not act disorderly among you,

(2 Thessalonians 3:8) 
nor did we eat anyone's bread for free, but we worked in labor and toil night and day, so that we would not burden any of you.

(2 Thessalonians 3:9) 
Not because we did not have the authority, but to give ourselves as a model to you, so that you might imitate us.

(2 Thessalonians 3:10) 
For even when we were with you, we were commanding you this: that if anyone does not want to work, neither let him eat.

(2 Thessalonians 3:11) 
For we hear that some of you are walking disorderly, doing no work, but acting as busybodies.

(2 Thessalonians 3:12) 
Now those of that kind we command and exhort in the Lord Jesus Christ, that working quietly, they eat their own bread.

(2 Thessalonians 3:13) 
But you, brothers, do not grow weary in doing good.

(2 Thessalonians 3:14) 
And if anyone does not obey our word through this letter, note this one, and do not associate with him, so that he may be ashamed.

(2 Thessalonians 3:15) 
And do not consider him an enemy, but admonish him as a brother.

(2 Thessalonians 3:16) 
Now may the Lord of peace Himself give you peace always in every place. The Lord be with all of you.

(2 Thessalonians 3:17) 
The greeting by my own hand, Paul, which is the sign in every letter; I write in this way.

(2 Thessalonians 3:18) 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with all of you. Amen.