(3 John 1:3 John 1:1) 
The Elder writes this letter to Gaius, my dearest spiritual child, whom I love in the fullness of the Truth.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:2) 
My dearest, I always pray for your complete well-being, that you may prosper in every aspect of your life and be in good health, just as your soul prospers in grace.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:3) 
I was overjoyed when our brothers in Christ came and bore witness to the fidelity of your life to the Truth, confirming that you indeed live according to the Truth of the Gospel.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:4) 
I have no greater spiritual joy than to hear that my spiritual children are living faithfully according to the Truth.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:5) 
My dearest, you act with true fidelity in everything you do for our fellow Christians, and especially for those who are traveling missionaries.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:6) 
These very brothers have given public testimony to your selfless charity before the entire Church. You will do a good work to send them forth on their journey in a manner truly worthy of God's holy service.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:7) 
For they have gone forth on their mission for the sake of His holy Name, relying only on the faithful, accepting no material support from those who are not believers in Christ.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:8) 
Therefore, we who believe ought to provide for and welcome such faithful missionaries, so that by our support, we may become their fellow laborers in the mission of the Truth.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:9) 
I also wrote a letter to the Church there; however, Diotrephes, who loves to be the supreme authority among them, openly rejects our apostolic authority and guidance.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:10) 
Because of this open defiance, if I come to visit, I will call attention to his wicked deeds: how he spreads malicious gossip against us with his words. And not content with merely doing this, he himself refuses to welcome the faithful traveling missionaries. Furthermore, he forbids those who desire to welcome them, and even casts them out of the Church community.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:11) 
My dearest, do not imitate what is evil, but rather embrace what is truly good. He who consistently does good and acts righteously is a child of God. But he who consistently does evil and acts wrongly has not truly known God.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:12) 
Regarding Demetrius, everyone speaks well of him, and his very life itself gives testimony to the Truth. We also bear our own witness to him, and you know well that our testimony concerning him is undeniably true.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:13) 
I had many more things to communicate to you, but I chose not to commit them to writing with mere ink and pen.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:14) 
Instead, I eagerly hope to see you very soon, so that we may speak to one another face to face. May peace be with you always.

(3 John 1:3 John 1:15) 
All the faithful here send their greetings to you. Please, in turn, greet all our beloved friends in the faith there, personally by name.